Geopolitical risk has risen to the top.
[music] The moment that we're in is very
serious.
>> There is a lot of turmoil in the world.
>> You need to be careful and more cautious
in where you're putting your money to
work.
>> Investors might want to think about
rightsizing positions.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, following a weekend of
chaos,
>> the United States and its partners have
launched Operation Epic Fury. Iran's
formerly Supreme Leader
Ayatollah
Hame
is dead. Combat operations continue at
this time and they will continue until
all of our objectives are achieved.
President Trump indicating strikes on
Iran could stretch into weeks. Rising
conflict sending traffic in the straight
of Hormurs grinding to a halt, pushing
Brent Crew towards its biggest one-day
rally in almost four years, fueling
another morning of risk aversion.
>> It's a left tail that is becoming
increasingly clear and increasingly
large. And that is an extended conflict.
[music] It seemed that that was not what
President Trump wanted at the beginning,
telling the New York Times that
Venezuela was the perfect scenario.
[music]
That's not what we've gotten. Instead,
we've gotten an Iran security chief who
said he won't talk with the United
States. 11 countries in the Middle East
now embroiled in this conflict. Oil
infrastructure now targeted. It feels
like that left tail of a prolonged
conflict is very real at this moment
>> and some big moves in this market as
well. Crude is higher, stocks are down,
bonds are dazed and confused. [music]
And a big question, a key question I
think for a lot of people on Wall
Street, do you fade this? Lori Cavverino
of RBC is going to join us a little bit
later this hour with this to [music]
say. we'd be careful paying too much
attention to historical studies that
suggest always buy stocks on bad
geopolitical news.
>> And I think that that's apt right now
because I can't tell you how many notes
I've gotten in my inbox, John, saying
that when conflicts happen, you buy the
[music] dip because they are
short-lived. But those are emphasizing
to Lor's point, short conflicts. What
happens when it's an all-out war that
lasts a long period of time? And what
happens when it's a market that's
conditioned to buy the dip? when it's
conditioned that geopolitical risks are
short-lived and [music] you can buy it,
maybe we're not as well positioned or
hedged for it in that case.
>> We've got a lot to cover this morning.
Happy to say that Danny's going to be
alongside us. Equity futures this
morning on the S&P 500 negative by 1%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Norman Rule of CSIS as the Middle East
erupts into conflict. Bob McNapid and
Energy Advisers with oil jumping the
most in some four years. And Lori
Calverino of RBC on navigating the risk
in the equity market. We begin this hour
with our top story. the president saying
combat operations will continue until
all objectives are achieved.
>> We cannot allow a nation that raises
terrorist armies to possess such weapons
would allow them to extort the world to
their evil will. Not going to let it
happen.
>> Joining us now for team coverage,
Bloomberg's Jamanna Bet in Dubai, Tyler
Kendall in Washington. Jamanna, welcome
to the program and thanks for making
some time for us this morning,
particularly after the events over the
weekend. Are we on the path to further
escalation? A path to a prolonged
interaction between the US, Israel, and
maybe a whole host of others as well
with Iran?
>> Well, let me reframe your question,
John, which is there seems to be no
offramp in sight uh and no signs of
deescalation. Uh and everything that
we've heard from President Trump over
the last 24 hours suggests that they are
going to continue with the military
campaign until those quotes objectives
are achieved. Uh the Israeli prime
minister also saying something similar
last night and saying that if anything
the operations are going to intensify in
coming days. Sandcom announcing over the
weekend that they've struck over a
thousand targets within Iran and
obviously the the main event being the
taking out of the Supreme Leader
alongside his adviser uh key commanders
within the revolutionary guard but then
key military infrastructure was also
targeted as well alongside the Navy
headquarters which is something
President Trump referred to. Now, on the
back of that, there was perhaps an
expectation that Iran would somehow uh
be willing or more willing to come to
the table, perhaps open up another door
for negotiations or even yield to some
of those concessions that the US have
been pushing for. That does not appear
to be the case. Uh on two accounts,
first of all, we heard from Ali
Larijani. This is a very influential
figure within the Islamic Republic this
morning. He is the chief of the national
supreme council, a key decision-making
body when it comes to military and
nuclear decisions. He was saying that
they will not enter into negotiations
with the US. And at the same time, the
Iranian response has come very very
swiftly targeting and also expanding
this conflict to include as Danny was
just saying earlier 11 countries now um
with many of these Gulf states and very
shocking to see the development actually
within these Gulf States even in Dubai
where I'm situated blast explosion
missiles drones being directed towards
these Gulf nations. Um most of those
missiles and drones have been
intercepted but uh the ones that haven't
have caused damage and we are seeing
also infrastructure damage. Some
buildings have got hit too. You would
have seen those images over the course
of the weekend. The airports are shut
down. The airspace is closed. There are
over 300,000 passengers who are stranded
in the region right now. Uh and the
response also from these Gulf states has
been pretty condemning. uh h has uh they
they haven't really uh minced their
words when it comes to the condemnation
of Iran and saying that they do have the
right to self-defense. And so the
feeling is that Iran potentially has
crossed the line not just with uh their
response uh to the US and to Israel uh
but also with the Gulf States as well.
>> Tyler Kendall, this is different for the
president. This is not in his
traditional playbook. Traditionally,
we'd be talking about something limited,
fast, with clear objectives that leads
to a period of deescalation. This feels
very, very open-ended. How new is this
for President Trump?
>> Right. Exactly, John. I mean,
particularly when you hear President
Trump in an interview saying that the US
would be willing to sustain this
campaign for four to five weeks if
necessary to reach his objectives. The
thing is, the president has offered
various and at times contradictory goals
for the military campaign. I can say
that a group of senior administration
officials briefed US reporters by phone
over the weekend and said that this
military campaign was started in large
part over disappointing progress last
week when it came to the nuclear talks
with Iran. You well know that there had
been big disagreements about Iran's
domestic enrichment capacity, but also
the fact that those other key agenda
items were not put on the table, most
notably Iran's ballistic missile
program. And now a person familiar with
the matter confirms to Bloomberg News
that the CIA had been tracking and
monitoring the Iran supreme leader at
this point for months and that the US
ultimately shifted the timeline of these
attacks based off of those findings. Now
the president of course has called on
the Iranian people to overtake the
government but also said in an interview
with the New York Times interestingly
enough that he would also be willing to
work with those current Iranian generals
if they were willing to seed to the US's
demand. So there is a lot on the table
here and a lot that we are going to
continue to watch as there are big
questions about exactly how this
administration is monitoring and uh
measuring progress going forward. Uh
John, of course important to note that
the president did say that the US
grieves the lives of those three
American service members who have been
killed. But he also cautioned that there
could be more casualties ahead.
>> Tyler, a sobering message over the
weekend. Tyler Kendall, thank you.
Jamanna, stay safe. Thanks for making
time for us. tracking a whole host of
new stories this morning. Of course,
with one central focus, developments in
the Middle East. This this morning just
dropping. You've all seen reports, I'm
sure, about three down jets, three
downed US jets over QA. The latest from
the United States. They say those three
jets were down due to apparent friendly
fire over Q8. All six air crew have
ejected safely. The jets mistakenly shot
down by Q8 air defenses. Those headlines
just crossing moments ago. to build on
this conversation and much more. I'm
pleased to say that Norman Rule, the
former senior US intelligence official
and senior adviser at CSIS joins us now
for more. Norm, so much to cut through.
Let's start with this. Who is in command
of the IRGC as things stand?
>> The commander of the IRGC is an
individual named Ahmed Vahidi. He's
highly experienced born in 1958. He
joined the IRGC in 1979. He was the
predecessor of Kasam Solmani in the Kuds
force uh and was extensively involved in
terrorism and has has indeed been
redlisted for his involvement in the
AMIA bombing in Argentina many years
ago. He is an individual with a very
dark history. So we have an individual
who was uh uh cut from the same playbook
as his predecessors uh in the IRGC.
Norman, given the layers of concentric
power in Iran, in the IRGC and a new
leader already stepping in, what does it
actually look like and what does it take
to have true regime change in Iran?
>> Well, at present, we have the regime has
already been changed. Their uh uh
strategic power has been severely
diminished. We've had 2,000 air strikes
by the United States and Israel
yesterday. The IRGC headquarters is
rubble. uh and beginning yesterday and
today uh the United States is conducting
uh massive tectonic uh strikes that on
uh uh Iran's uh uh missile uh nuclear
and other subterranean holdings. So
Iran's uh strategic capacity is being
reduced. Its uh missile launchers are
being uh uh whittleled away. That
doesn't mean it won't have capacity to
fire, but Iran's strategic uh resources
are being already transformed. The sup
supreme leader is dead. His successor is
being selected according to the standard
process. So the regime has changed. It's
still the same type of administration
and uh uh the besiege their militias on
the street armed keeping the protesters
down um as before. So we have a similar
type of regime but it is severely
weakened.
>> What do you then understand about what
this president of the United States aims
are in Iran? than Norman. In his initial
address, he gave a variety of reasons of
why the US was attacking Iran. It became
clear that he wanted that regime shift.
What is the president's goal at this
moment? And what does that tell you
about how long a conflict may last?
>> Well, to be clear, I think the goals are
consistent to uh reduce to uh uh end
Iran's capacity to rebuild a nuclear
enterprise and the military operations
that are being conducted now will
achieve that. although Iran could make a
decision to rebuild that at some point
in the future absent a political
decision to second to uh end the missile
threat uh uh uh at present although Iran
could rebuild that in the future unless
there's a political change and finally
to severely degrade Iran's regional
adventurism and coulds force and we
destroyed the IRGC headquarters and are
conducting u uh strikes against a
revolutionary guard capacity so again
the president is conducting military
operations to achieve all of those
goals. The challenge becomes he's got to
now have an Iranian government that in
order to survive and sustain the regime,
they've got to say we will agree to not
rebuild that in order to survive, have a
normal relationship with our neighbors
and sanctions relief. That government
has not yet agreed to do this, but
again, I must say we're one day into a a
conflict. So, this is uh these are still
early days.
>> Norm, so let's go through what we know
and what we've seen so far. I think a
notable feature for many over the
weekend with the counter strikes across
the Gulf. Do you see those strikes as
maybe risking bringing others into this
war or producing a different response?
Getting others in the Gulf to push back
against the interactions they've seen so
far?
>> The the response was entirely expected.
Iran's goals would have been as
following. First, they're going to try
to achieve as much losses in the United
States to promote a political debate
within the United States against the
president. And second, they're going to
want to uh uh punish or attack uh Gulf
partners in other countries to cause
them to turn to the president and say,
"End the conflict." Now, what we've seen
is actually a a diminished attack.
Normally, you would have seen saturation
strikes by the Iranians of missile drone
and it hasn't been mentioned cyber
strikes as well. The fact that these
have actually been on a fairly reduced
scale shows the relative success of
American uh uh strikes in limiting the
number of launchers. Now, it's still
been a terrible impact. We've had losses
on on that are significant, but this is
far less than Iran would have hoped to
achieve. And I must also say that Iran
has transformed its relationship with
the Gulf. It's a terrible defeat for the
Iranian diplomacy. They they they've
literally turned their relationship with
the Gulf 180 degrees from a day to
enemies. And this will last for a
generation for the Iranians.
>> Nom, do you see a path to deescalation
in the coming days?
>> Yes. The Iranians in essence through the
this conflict will have to be compelled
to uh through defeat through a military
defeat uh to uh accept the president's
terms. That's the path at this at this
point. There is not a path through
diplomatic negotiations at this point.
There is not going to be a path through
mediations. The Iranians are going to
have to accept that they cannot in order
to survive, in order to stay alive,
they're going to have to accept that
they're going to have to come to terms.
And again, we're we're we're about one
day in, 2,000 strikes, and they've
watched multiple colleagues be killed.
The supreme leader, the heads of their
military, uh the lifespan of an Iranian
leader is uh is not a very long one at
present.
>> Norman Rule, Norman, appreciate your
time as always, sir. Thank you. Norman
Ru there of CSIS. If you're just joining
the program, welcome. No doubt you want
to be tracking what's happening with
crude high up by more than 7% on Brent
and WTI briefly in the 80s overnight in
Asian trading. in Brent Crew this
morning 7841 with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Nora Melinda joins us now for more. Hey
Nora.
>> Hey. A third day of attacks underway
across the Middle East. President Donald
Trump saying the bombing campaign
against Iran will continue until US
objectives are achieved. [music] The
president also telling ABC his picks to
lead Iran were killed in the initial
attack. Brent jumping as by as much as
13% to above $82 a barrel before pulling
back. Oil markets are bracing for
prolonged volatility as tanker traffic
through the straight of Horus [music]
stalls. About a fifth of the world's oil
and liqufied natural gas typically flow
through the straight every day. A number
of US fighter jets crashed in the
Persian Gulf this morning as the war
with Iran entered its third [music] day.
The Kuwaiti government says all crew
members survived. US officials reporting
the jets were downed due to an apparent
friendly fire incident. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Norah, [music] thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Nora later this hour.
Up next on the program, the soaring cost
[music] of crude.
>> This market going into this was priced
for a glut a high level of complacency.
We've been talking about a security
premium in energy prices now for over a
year. Um I think this is it. This is
going to be a structural repricing and
you know I would not fade this current
spike.
>> That conversation up next. We'll catch
up with Bob McNapid and Energy Group
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
We've got some risk aversion this
morning. Good morning to you. We're down
by 1% on the S&P, negative 1.5 on the
NASDAQ and the Russell. The focus of the
world on the commodity market. Under
Savannah this morning, the soaring cost
of crude.
This market going into this was priced
for a gl a high level of complacency.
We've been talking about a security
premium in energy prices now for over a
year. Um I think this is it. This is
going to be a structural repricing and
you know I would not fade this current
spike. The probability that this thing
gets protracted in other regions I think
is quite high. So the volatility is
going to be be high. The situation's
fluid u I wouldn't fade it.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Oil
surging, tanker traffic slowing to a
standstill near [music] the straight off
this morning. Javier Blast of Bloomberg
opinion writing the following. Prices
could get nasty but the conflict won't
lead to a prolonged shock to the energy
market. Javier joined us now for more.
Javier, good morning to you, sir. Just
build on that if you can. Why do you
think that's the case?
we are uh below $80 a barrel with
potentially if you have asked me a
decade ago the scenario that we are
seeing in the Middle East the killing of
uh the supreme leader of Iran bombing
and counterbombing and that we will only
be up to about $72 WTI $78 brand I will
have believed that probably we needed
double that number that we were at 150
so far the market is taking it on a
stride I think that we are in a race
against time. The longest this goes, the
potential for a big production, sorry,
for a big price increase. But what we
have so far, the market has a lot of
buffer. Inventories have recovered. Uh
production elsewhere is booming. And I
think that the market can take it for a
few more days. The question is how long
this goes. If it's a few days, we are
fine. If it's a few weeks, we are in
trouble.
>> Javier, that's a question of duration.
What about specific developments that
would get you to change your mind? or so
parts of the energy infrastructure
across the Middle East that might come
under attack. What are you focused on at
the moment?
>> If we begin to have significant attacks
against oil infrastructure, particularly
esport terminals, then obviously that
completely change the the the arithmetic
of the situation. If we we see attacks
against either Iranian or Saudi Kubeti
UAE infrastructure, that will be a
significant escalation and then the
market will be absolutely parabolic.
This is not a market I would like to
short not in the slightest way but I'm
also uh hesitant to say that we are
going to be to $150
because at this point I don't see it if
attacks happen then that that situation
is very different if the straight of
hormos doesn't fully reop reopen to
navigation that will be also an
important clue and I think that that is
something that we will be seeing uh
sooner if we don't get some movement by
I will say Wednesday on Thursday in the
state of Hormos I think that the market
is going to get much concern.
>> Javier, thank you sir. Jav have a blast
out of London of course tracking
Javier's work over the weekend.
Fantastic as always. 7850 on Brent right
now. Bob McNell of Rapid and Energy
Advisers warning the following. The
conflict creates the potential for the
most severe energy supply disruption
since 2019. Writing quote a protracted
loss of farmers could send crude prices
back above $100 and tip the economy into
recession. Bob joins us now for more.
Bob, welcome. It's good to see you. Your
line over the weekend, this is really
important. This one right here, the
consensus continues to underestimate
Trump's willingness to take risks when
it comes to energy. Bob, what are people
getting wrong?
You know, that's right. Uh they were
thinking, taco, this president's not
serious. He doesn't want an oil price
spike. And he doesn't. No American
president wants an oil price spike,
especially in a midterm election year.
That's going to be tough. However, one
thing we've learned about Donald Trump,
he has this personal aversion to nuclear
weapons. I mean, it's right up there
with windmills and uh uh high tenure
rates. I mean, he really is opposed to
it. And you saw in June, there was no
guarantee Iran was going to take the
bombing of its nuclear facilities as
lightly as it did last June. Even when
it comes to Russia in October, he
sanctioned Russian energy companies to
squeeze Putin. So, while President
Trump, like his predecessors, do not
want to see high oil prices, he is
willing to take risk of high oil prices,
especially when it comes to keeping
nukes out of the hands of the Iranians.
>> If many are underestimating the actions
of President Trump, Bob, do you think
people are underestimating the actions
of Iran, their ability to cause re wreck
havoc in the straight of Hormuse to
damage oil energy infrastructure?
>> I do. I really think the market's
getting that wrong as well. Uh, you
know, folks are now going back to
memory. I mean, when is the last time
the US military shot at an adversary? It
was over in hours today. First Gulf War,
second Gulf War. You can go back to 1988
when we fought the Iranians and sank
about half their fleet in an afternoon.
But this is not uh those events. uh Iran
has the means, the ability to make
Hormuz unsafe for longer than the
market, I think, uh expects. And Javier
is exactly right. If we get to the end
of this week and Sentcom has not
promised the world that Hormuz is free
and safe and open and we start to see
that traffic resume, uh we're going to
be in a world the market really hasn't
thought about, probably doesn't believe
could exist. And the math is pretty
awful uh for oil and gas if it's remains
closed.
>> Bob, I think a lot of reasons that
people think that won't happen is
because of the massive own goal that
might present for Iran given how
dependent they are on China that they're
trading in Rimi and that they need them
for imports that they're bringing in.
Would Iran be hesitant to close the
straight of Hormuse or cause issues
there just because of the exports of
energy flowing through to China?
Normally it would, but this is not a
normal time. The Iranian regime or
what's left of it is fighting for its
existence. And as been talking about on
this program, they're going to unusual
lengths now, making it a regional war,
turning the GCC countries against them,
attacking hotels, attacking all over the
place. Even the Europeans look like
they're going to get involved. So Iran
is resorting to desperate measures. And
look, at the end of the day, Iran does
not have escalation dominance when it
comes to military. The only real
leverage the Iranian regime can hope to
have is over the price of oil is to send
oil prices high for a long period of
time and hope that induces President
Trump to back off. I think the Iranians,
you know, President Trump says he's
looking at the Venezuela example as a
perfect scenario. I think the Iranians
are looking at what the Houthis did last
April. They survived 52 days of
pummeling uh a thousand munitions, a
billion dollars, and the United States
failed uh to compel them to stop uh
blocking the Baba Madab. So this is much
bigger than that. Uh we're throwing a
lot more at Iran than we did at the
Houthis. However, the Iranians have much
better weaponry and coastline to operate
from. So, I think the Iranians are here
to uh they're going to try to put a high
price of oil on the president's agenda.
Get him to say, "I can't take this
anymore after a few weeks and hope that
he backs off." I think that's the
Iranian strategy.
>> Bob, just quickly, got about 60 seconds
left. Let's take the Brent futures curve
or just a simple contract table. We
expected the spike at the front end of
the curve. Further out into 27, we're
still trading in the 60s. Do you think
there's a structural premium that needs
to be repriced here given what we've
seen over the weekend?
I think so. I think we're going to go a
lot higher in the near term. I think the
structural premium needs to come in. I
think that'll happen if we do not see a
ceasefire or that hormuse straight
opened in the next, you know, several
days. Um longterm, I'm extremely
bullish. I remain extremely bullish for
structural factors. Uh but I think uh
near-term there needs to be a structural
geopolitical risk premium. Let me just
say this though. Uh while I'm very
bullish medium to long term, demand's
not peaking, we're underinvested in
supply. It's very bullish long term. Uh
look, these oil price spikes and
especially if we have to balance the
global oil and LNG market by demand
destruction, that's going to lead to a
recession. So we could go a lot lower in
the near term after we go higher.
>> Bob, it's good to see you. Bob McDall
there of Rapid and Energy Advisors out
of Washington DC with Brent Crude in the
high7s. is up next on the program. Lori
Calverina of RBC Capital Markets with
equities under pressure this morning
from New York. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Things playing out as expected coming
off the back of the biggest monthly loss
on the S&P and the NASDAQ that we've
seen in some 12 months. Equity futures
down again this morning by 1% on the S&P
on the Nasdaq by 1.4 on the Russell this
morning. The small caps down by 1.3. If
we switch on the board, no doubt you
want to track crude. A 20% move here
today into this up another seven on
Brent. 7.3% higher. 78.21 overnight
briefly. Taking a [music] little visit.
A sneak peek of the 80s. Now switch up
the board again. And this is the
question. What on earth do you do with
bonds this morning? Initially yields
down. Now they're higher by three basis
points. 10's Danny following a 30 basis
point move through last month. 396.
>> We're still under [music] 4%. Maybe
that's a win. But it is notable the flip
you had from a rally to a sell-off. And
that feels like a market that seems to
be pricing in a disruption premium of
oil facilities being targeted. [music]
And maybe you could say normally it
would be a short-lived reaction. People
love to buy the dip. They love to
overlook it. But this has been a market
that has been looking for reasons to
fall. We've felt that over the past
couple weeks and now we fa face
existential threats from multiple
fronts. Be it with Iran and geopolitics,
be [music] it technological, be it
credit, be it monetary. There's so many
things weighing on this market that this
attack isn't just happening in
isolation.
>> If you wanted another excuse to sell,
you've got one this morning. At the
front end of the curve, an intriguing
move. Yields high by three basis points.
Does this constrain [music] the
so-called Fed put? The Federal Reserve
meeting a few weeks away. 341 at the
front end of the yield curve. Let's get
you some single [music] names and start
with the energy players. Things are
playing out as you might expect. The
likes of Exxon, Chevron rally in the
pre-market by some 4%. The airlines get
two hits. They get the extra fuel costs
one and also the disruption in the
Middle East, a key hub for many
airlines, particularly some of the
European players. United's down six,
Delta [music] down five.
>> It's max pain for them that has already
felt disruption from things like
weather. This adds to it, but adds to it
in a big way. When you think about some
of these connection hubs, be it in
Dubai, be it Doha, these are places in
the Middle East that had really
portrayed themselves as a place for
business, [music]
a place for foreigners, and a place,
yes, for airlines to consider themselves
a hub. Does this disrupt, does this
shatter some of that illusion of safety
[music] and ability to continue to carry
out those routes?
>> A bastion of stability amidst the chaos.
Nothing stable about the events [music]
over the weekend. On our radar this
morning, strikes across the Middle East
entering a third day. President Donald
Trump warning the attacks could last
quote four to five weeks, calling on
Iran's leaders to surrender. The US
Central Command saying three fighter
jets crashed in Q8 this morning. All six
air crew ejected safely and have been
recovered. US officials reporting the
jets were down due to an apparent
friendly fire incident. And finally, at
least three ships were reportedly struck
in the Persian Gulf region. Iran is
reportedly blocking passage through the
Straight of Hormuz, a crucial waterway
connecting the Persian Gulf and the Gulf
of Aman.
>> And it's not even just that. Saudi
Arabia saying this morning that one of
their oil refineries has been closed
because of an attack there. The straight
of Hormuse, one analyst I thought put it
well that it's almost kind of like a
hose. You bend it and it stops. But once
you unbend it, the oil flow goes right
back through. What happens though if oil
infrastructure is targeted? That's very
difficult to get right back online.
>> Keeps coming back to the same question
again and again and again. Everything
I'm reading, Danny, duration.
>> Is this a one-off hit over the weekend
that leads to a period of deescalation?
we'll move on quickly by the dip. If
this is prolonged, it's a very different
calculation you've got to make. And
that's essentially what Javier was
getting at just moments ago.
>> And Bob McN as well, this idea that
initially you'd get an oil price spike,
but if it lasts, what do you get? You
get consumers who effectively have a new
tax and maybe pull back on spending
elsewhere. You maybe have weakness that
in turn leads to oil prices going
longer. It is a scenario that markets
aren't used to. They're used to short
conflicts that markets snap back very
quickly. So, this could be different
this time and maybe we're not prepared
for it.
>> Can you fade this? A move of 7% on Brent
and WTI. WTI 71, Bren at 78. Let's keep
it on the market. Stocks tumbling to
start the new week and the new month
after ending February in the red. Lori
Calverina of RBC writing, "What's more
relevant to stocks is whether a
sustained impact to oil prices is seen,
which is what we think would have more
of a potential to damage confidence at
various levels." Lori joins us now for
more. Lori, welcome to the program and
thanks for making some time for us on a
busy morning. No doubt you've got client
calls back to back throughout the whole
of today. Lori, typically we'd say buy
the dip. People would come on and say
fade the geopolitical risk. Is it
different this morning?
>> Well, thanks for having me on, John.
Look, I think that we're in a bit of a
discovery process today. I think
everybody needs to take a deep breath.
Um, you know, I think that the reality
is that if you go back and you look at
different geopolitical conflicts, um,
and we actually did a study on this, the
duration does matter, right? And so you
see all these tables floating around of
people saying buy the dip on
geopolitical risk, you usually bounce
back right away. Those studies tend to
be heavily weighted to short duration
conflicts. If you bake in some of the
ones, you know, that have been more
extended recently, even in instances
where you see a rebound, you tend to see
extreme weakness heading into those
periods. So we honestly, we would just
kind of throw out all of those
historical playbooks and keep an eye on
things like valuation, things like
sentiment, things like economic
forecasts. Um, I do think that goes
handinhand with the duration of, you
know, an oil price spike, how high, how
long it lasts. We don't know the answer
to those things right now. And I am
starting to detect a little bit of panic
in some of the headlines I'm seeing
today, some of the commentary I'm
hearing. We think that people again need
to take a deep breath, let the day
unfold, um, let the debates emerge, and
keep an eye on those various data
points.
>> Well, Lori, let's have a deep breath
right now and go through valuations and
start there. A list of reasons for PE
compression over the past few weeks.
Danny listed them just moments ago. Is
this another one? Does this make it
harder for valuations to recover?
>> If you go back and you look at
quantitative gauges of policy
uncertainty on national security in
particular, what we do tend to see is
when that uncertainty spikes, we do see
we do tend to see forward pees compress
a bit. Now, the good news for the market
is that we've already seen a bit of
compression. If we look at the market
cap weighted S&P 500 PE, I forget the
exact number back in August, but I think
it was around 30. It's moved down to
about 25. Now, the long-term average is
more like a high 18, closer to 19. So,
there's still some more room that you
could fall. And if you go back and look
at 2022 and the Russia Ukraine invasion,
when we made the lows in the market, we
actually went back down to the long-term
average. So, valuation is one thing that
you can look at. It's not close to a
bottom yet. I would say another one that
we can look at pretty closely is
sentiment on the AI survey. That one has
fallen pretty hard as well. And if you
looked at the weekly data point last
week, that was actually about minus 6%
in favor of the bears, close to one
standard deviation below the long-term
average. So these are the kinds of
things we can look at, but I would say
valuations compressing. Yes, what we're
going through right now is a reason for
that to happen, but also bear in mind we
have already incurred a fair amount of
damage on that front.
>> Lori, what about sentiment among
corporate America? You and the team are
consistent on doing excellent work,
listening to executives and what they
have to say during earning season or
else-wise. And you point out that since
co they have talked about resilience of
being better able to cope with
uncertainty. What about this type of
uncertainty of geopolitics and the
potential of a drawn out conflict?
>> It's a great question, Danny. I mean, I
would say if we go back to 2018 during
the first Trump trade war, what we
really saw was companies being tested
time and time again and then of course
we went into the co the supply chain
crisis. Um, you know, it's funny every
time I go through one of these reporting
seasons, I think this is finally going
to be the issue that causes corporate
America to break and not bend and yet
they continue to bend and show
resilience. Um, actually over the
weekend I spent some time refreshing my
memory on what companies have been
saying on geopolitics recently and it's
it's a little tricky to sus out because
they do tend to sort of lump it in with
the trade war discussion, the tariff
discussion, they have been emphasizing
manageability. Um, if you look at sort
of the Middle East in particular, I
thought it was interesting that we saw
some financial companies talk about how
um, just increased tensions in the
Middle East had been leading to
increased hedging activity. So was a
positive for their business. So that was
sort of one interesting little data
point to keep in mind. And of course we
did see oil companies talking about, you
know, potential increases in oil price,
support for the oil price. So it's
interesting that some of those issues,
you know, have been floated even before
we sort of knew exactly what we were
dealing with over the weekend. But I
would say for now, Danny, I'm still in
the camp. I don't want to count against
corporate America. They seem to be
rising to the occasion on just about
every single issue we've seen, including
the regional banking crisis, um the SVB
issue a few years ago. Um so we'll keep
a close eye on what they're saying, but
for now they seem to be in in sort of
the manageable category.
>> The financials are a particularly
interesting index, Lori, and one to
watch just because part of the thesis,
the really bullish thesis of them had
been that animal spirits are coming
back, so M&A was coming back. But we've
seen volatility, be it from tech. And
now the Middle East, at least the tech
episode meant that IPOs had been paused,
maybe deals reconsidered. If we add to
that what's happening right now and what
happened over the weekend, Lori, does
that dent the positive thesis for
financial companies?
>> I I think that, you know, the deal
activity is maybe, you know, maybe the
recovery there was a little bit
overhyped last year. Not so much looking
at IPOs, but looking at M&A. Some of the
data I've seen suggests that we had a
big increase in dollar volume, but not
necessarily deal count. So there may be
more in the pipeline that we realize. Um
but I would say in general, you know, if
I think back to kind of early on in my
career, um I had an M&A banker tell me
once that you look at the VIX, you look
at confidence, um you know, in terms of
those kinds of issues to figure out if
deals are going to pick up. So we
certainly do think that it is something
that should be on the radar. I will say
with financials as well, it's not just
about dealing, but when you tend to see
increases in consumer confidence, when
you see incre increases in the ISM
manufacturing index, those are things
that generally accompany financials
outperformance in both the large cap
space and the small cap space. So to the
extent those get dented, even if it's
not corporates per se, that's something
else you want to keep an eye on as well.
We are watching, you know, kind of the
capital markets group very very closely,
Danny. If you look at valuations, they
were very extended in that part of the
market to start the year. They've pulled
back. They're kind of sitting around
average. They're not cheap yet, but it
is something we're keeping an eye on.
>> The credit risk is an additional factor
in all of this. Lori, we've seen the
problems atricolor first brands and now
market financial solutions. The typical
candidates have been beaten up over the
past month or so. Think Blue down
something like 23% through last month.
But you started to see going into the
weekend it was dragging in Morgan
Stanley, Goldman Sachs, names that had
been doing really, really well. Is it
too early to start buying into that
sector?
>> That capital markets group I mentioned,
it's sort of, this is the GIX level
three. It's sort of a wide ranging
group. It includes things like the
alternative asset managers. You've got
things like investment banks. Um, you
know, we've got a number of different
groups in there. Um, it's kind of a
wide-ranging group. We do like the
financial sector, but we've said all
along we're more interested in kind of
the traditional banks.
>> Lori, it's good to see you as always.
Lori Cavversina there of RBC. Danny, you
touched on it earlier this hour. The
backdrop for all of these things is
always important. Do you fade it or not?
The backdrop right now, the economy is
one piece of it. But credit and market
sentiment is another. And market
sentiment has been beaten up on the
credit side of things over the past few
weeks.
>> It really has. I said this before, it
feels like a market that's been looking
for reasons to sell off, to take profits
on things. You add credit to this and
does it become more existential of the
flow of capital that's been so necessary
not just for the private credit giants
but for things like funding AI
infrastructure if they start to pull
back if retail flows a key pillar of
their expansion start to push back too.
What wider ramifications does that start
to have?
>> What did Jamie Diamond say over at JP
Morgan? I see a couple of people doing
some dumb things. Guess who we speak to
a little bit later. Jamie Diamond, the
JP Morgan Chase and chairman and CEO is
going to be sitting down with
Bloomberg's Lisa Bravitz a little bit
later on this afternoon at 2 PM Eastern
time. Look out for that on Bloomberg TV.
Let's give an update on stories
worldwide this morning. There is only
one with your Bloomberg brief. Nora
Melinda has more. Hey Nora.
>> The Israeli military is launching an
offensive against Hezbollah in Lebanon.
Israel bombing Beirut after the militant
group fired rockets and [music] drones
into the Jewish state. According to
Lebanese authorities, more than 30
people were killed in the Israeli air
strikes. Meanwhile, global leaders are
reacting to the military action in Iraq.
Japanese Prime Minister Sana Takahichi
[music]
condemning Iran's nuclear program. North
Korea condemning Israel's military
attack on Iran. The UK, France, and
Germany issuing a joint statement saying
they were not involved in the strikes
[music] but are in close contact with
the US and Israel. Prime Minister Kier
Sarmmer saying the UK will [music] not
be involved. Elsewhere, authorities are
investigating a shooting in Austin,
Texas over the weekend that killed
[music] three people and injured 14
others. The FBI is trying to determine
whether the attack was carried out
[music] as a reaction to the conflict in
the Middle East. Investigators
discovered indicators pointing to a
potential nexus to terrorism, but said
it was too early to determine motive.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey, Nora, thank you. Thank you very
much. Up next on the program, betting on
rising inflation.
>> In this type of environment, what the
question is is really what happens to
growth and to inflation. You know, we
have come into this with a with a pretty
risk on view on risk assets [music] with
the idea that growth is strong. These
limited oil price increases could see
some pickup in break even.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Kathy Jones
of Charles Swab live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. You're
watching Bloomberg [music] TV.
>> [music]
>> The week ahead was already stacked.
Check [music] out the data. Payrolls on
Friday, retail sales as well. Later on
today, ISM manufacturing later in the
week, ISM services. But this event right
here now the main event possibly 4 p.m.
Eastern time. A briefing on what's
happening in the Middle East from
Secretary Rubio. Look out for that given
this price action right here recovering
very very slowly. Still lower on the
session [music] by.9% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ down by one full percentage point
and a big rally in crude as soon as
Asian trading started yesterday. A gap
higher through the 80s through into the
80s on Brent crude 77.80 80 this
morning. Crude higher by 6 to7%.
>> That feels almost like a win this
morning, I have to say. Under $80 a
barrel. It's something Javier Bloss
pointed out. [music] Yet the US and
Israel attack Iran. They killed the
Supreme Leader. There's chaos in the
straight of Hormuse. Oil energy
infrastructure has been attacked. More
countries are getting embroiled in this.
And all you have is an under 7% move.
That wouldn't even be the 53rd biggest
move in oil prices. The number feels
big, just that 6%, but all things
considered, that's quite subdued.
>> What do you think, Danny? At the moment,
there's two options here. Either we're
questioning how prolonged this is going
to be. One or two, we rally pretty hard
into the weekend already. Crude was
higher by something like 20% [music]
year to date before the month was out.
>> It's a good point. We priced in a lot of
this, but to Bob McN's point, [music]
maybe it still is a market that's
underlooking the president's aims and
willingness to impact energy and to feel
that pain because that's behind the
thesis for so many as to why Trump
wouldn't do this. the midterms are
approaching. Would he really want higher
oil prices? Perhaps he's okay to contend
with [music] that and you already have a
lot of supply. There's an over supply in
this market. OPEC plus raising their oil
output. So maybe it will take a while
before you see a real impact and [music]
therefore you could have this prolonged
conflict of a president who's not
deterred to do so.
>> Take that move there in energy. Push it
through the bond market. Yields higher
across the curve. Two's up by three,
10's up by three. Getting closer and
closer to that 4% line of the sand once
again. But coming from the other side
397 so far this morning and Sylvanas
this morning betting on rising
inflation.
>> We are seeing some risk off in markets
but it does seem contained. We are
seeing a cautious zone not a panic in
this type of environment. What the
question is is really what happens to
growth [music] and to inflation. You
know we have come into this with a with
a pretty risk on view on risk assets
with the idea that growth is strong.
These limited oil price increases could
see some pickup in break even. largely
speaking, it's not this seismic shock to
to inflation.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Treasury yields climbing with soaring
oil prices stoking fears of accelerating
inflation. Joining us now to discuss is
Kathy Jones of Charge Swap. Kathy, I
think a lot of people in this bond
market do not know what to do with the
shock over the weekend. Initially,
yields lower then higher. What should
you do with this move?
>> Well, probably not react in the short
term at all. If you're well positioned,
you don't have to. Um, but I think it's
a it is I think Danny was pointing out
an interesting phenomenon that the
subdued reaction is partly due to the
fact that we kind of had this move ahead
of time before everything happened uh in
the Middle East. So you already had
yields on 10 years down to 394 in
anticipation I think of some flight to
safety. Um, and there's also the second
lesson that we've learned over many,
many years that we get these blowups in
the Middle East and then things go back
to some semblance of normal or markets
come back to some semblance of normal.
And I think that that's part of what's
in the in the bond market right now. Not
overreacting to anything because our
experience at least over the last
several decades has been that these
things sort of explode and then die
down. um remains to be seen, but I'm not
sure that I would take any action right
now.
>> Well, Kathy, let's take a step back and
think about what's happened in the past
month or so. A 30 basis point move lower
on 10-year Treasury yields when we've
got a long long list of reasons as to
why yields should be higher. They've
been breaking down. What's the big
driving force in the bond market right
now?
>> Yeah, I think that the uh the market is
looking at the potential for inflation
to come down, to eb and for the Fed to
cut rates. you know, we'll have a new
Fed chair in May who is basically come
out and said that he's really in favor
of some rate cuts and uh on top of that,
we've seen a little bit of evidence of
some ebbing in in the inflation
pressures that we've seen uh prior to
this weekend. So I think the market got
somewhat complacent has been complacent
about those inflation concerns. But um
at this stage of the game I think with
the energy price increase with uh all of
the the renewed spending that we're
going to see for the war effort um it
seems unlikely to me that yields have a
whole lot more room on the downside.
>> Kathy, how much more room? What are you
looking for?
Yeah, again it's it's hard to predict
how this conflict is going to play out
over time. Um but you know, three and
three quarters in the 10 years seems to
me to be a really low yield in this
environment with energy prices ticking
up with um fiscal stimulus coming in. Uh
I I think we'd have to see a much more
serious development in terms of slowing
economic growth globally as a result of
this conflict for yields to fall very
much from there. What are you looking
for in order to assess whether that
could be the outcome, Kathy?
Specifically, it comes to oil. What is
the price mechanism where you look at a
big enough jump and say, "Okay, this is
something that could impact inflation
and therefore impact the direction of
bonds."
>> Yeah, it would have to be more than the
six or seven% uh rise that we've seen
here. It have to be prolonged over time.
So, spikes tend to, you know, tend to
wear themselves out pretty quickly. And
if the spike is only going to be five or
6% or maybe 8% from here, it it's not
that big or long lasting for the bond
market to really overreact to it. Um,
also, you know, you look at what the
Fed's reaction function would be. I
think that they will look through a
spike in oil prices generated by the
conflict and not necessarily react in
that way. You really have to see the
energy price increase filter through to
production to to cost of manufacturing
etc. uh to end prices for it to be a
longlasting event.
>> Kathy, we got to finish with you where
developments on high yield credit
spreads are starting to widen. Levels
are still pretty tight at 291, but we've
had a move of 40 basis points off the
tights of the middle of January. Kathy,
that's notable. What's the driving force
behind that? And do you see a material
tightening of financial conditions on
the horizon?
>> I mean, that's the big question. I think
a lot of the drive in the widening in in
high yield spreads has been some risk
aversion as a result of the concerns
about private credit, leverage loans,
the exposure to software companies, and
um that's something we've been talking
about for highlighting for a long time
that the spreads were so tight, they
just didn't give you any cushion for
error. And so we're starting to see them
them widen a bit. Really don't mind high
yield in general at these levels in
terms of having sort of a neutral
position or a a normal allocation to
them. But I am concerned of the
spillover effect. When when investors
need liquidity and they can't get it in
the asset class that's giving them
problems, they tend to sell whatever
they can sell. And in this case, that
could be high yield. I think that's part
of the driving force be behind the
widening and spreads. Kathy, it's good
to see you. It always is. Thanks for
joining us. Kathy Jones there of Charles
Swab. Interesting month in fixed income.
That goes without saying. Yields a whole
lot lower on 10-year treasuries and
credit spreads starting to widen out.
And as I say, 291 still pretty tight
historically, but a 40 basis point move
wider over the past month. Notable.
>> And it's especially notable because it
has felt contradictory to see stocks
selling off while credit spreads have
been well contained. I've talked to a
lot of players in the private credit
industry who point to that and see say
see credit is higher in the capital
stack. You'd expect both of them to be
getting hit if we should really be
worried about something. All of a
sudden, if you start to get spreads
widening, that argument starts to get
eroded. And I think Cathy's point about
the spillover effect, if you're worried
about your private credit holdings and
can't liquidate, maybe you do hit up the
more liquid parts of this bond market.
>> Speaking of the spillover effect, check
out this headline just crossing a
Bloomberg right now. Katar Energy
stopping LG production following the
attacks over the weekend. Again, Kater
Energy stopping LG production after the
attacks over the weekend. And look at
the move that you're seeing in Europe.
Benchmark gas prices seeing gains of 30%
in today's session.
>> How do you look at that and say there is
no inflationary impact? This is why you
started to see the turn in Treasury
yields from a rally to a sell-off. It's
not just that. It is energy
infrastructure. It's not just the
straight of Hormuse. It's refineries.
What happens if Iran starts to target
those? That could lead to higher and
more sustained energy prices and you
need to treat things like bonds
differently. That is where you see the
spillover effect and less containment.
>> Treasuries down yields higher up four
basis points at the front end of the
curve on twos 10's up three to about
397. Coming up next on this program,
we'll catch up with Peter Chair of
Academy Securities. We speak to the US
Army veteran, Colonel Joel Rayburn,
Sanjay Jamama of JP Morgan, and Steven
Shaw of the Shaw Group [music] from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
The second down with Bloomberg
surveillance up next.
We're probably in a kind of singledigit
return market here, not a double-digit
return market.
>> Investors are becoming appropriately
more nervous given the starting
valuations.
>> You're seeing a little bit of a flight
to safety.
>> Momentum, as we know, is a really
powerful force. There's concentrated
risk [music] in every global market.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures declining, down 1% on the S&P.
Similar move on the NASDAQ. We're down
by 1.25. Check out crude, WTI, and Bren.
For [music] many of you, your Monday
morning started Sunday evening and we
saw a gap higher in Bren into the 80s
briefly. 7845 this morning, WTI at 72.
[music]
>> It's a real risk that is starting to
emerge that it's not just ships being
bullied out of traveling through the
straight of Hormuse. It is oil and
energy infrastructure being attacked
with Qatar LNG pausing those shipments
after an attack, an attack on a Saudi
refinery, too. Given [music]
that this is an Iranian regime that is
now facing its very existence, this is
not the 12-day war. This is not a well
telegraphed and somewhat symbolic attack
coming [music] from the Iranians. It is
sustained and it's increasingly
involving other parts of the Middle
East.
>> This is an existential crisis for the
regime, what's left of it. And we're
struggling to find the offramp at least
so far this morning. And that'll be a
big discussion for us [music] elsewhere.
The discussion of the moment when you
ask anyone about crude, it's about
duration. You tell me how long this will
last and I'll [music] tell you what kind
of impact this is going to have. That's
the debate a lot of people are having.
>> And the problem with that debate it is
is that it's wholly unknown at this
point. [music] How do you price that in?
How do you understand how long it takes
to achieve the president's goal which is
a changing of regime? This is not a
regime that's placed as a pyramid where
you take someone out the top and there's
not a lot of people waiting. It's
concentric circles of leadership. Be it
military, be it security, be it economic
or ideological. This is a complicated
regime to have a true shift in it and
that makes it unknown of just how long
the United States and Israel are willing
to continue [music] to make pain in that
region and the Iranian regime to strike
back.
>> So as you'd expect some big moves at the
index level for stocks [music] beneath
that the sector level energy doing well.
You guarantee that on a morning like
this morning. Elsewhere what are you
seeing play out? You're seeing defense
names start to rally rally aggressively.
Elsewhere, [music] the airlines, the
airlines are getting beaten up for more
reason than one. And I think what was
notable over the weekend was just the
amount of retaliation we saw beyond just
Israel and the US and strategic targets,
but [music] to other Gulf nations as
well to hear Jamal Bet in her coverage
out of the region. The fact that she's
still hearing sirens go off and bombs
explode above her head. That's pretty
shocking for a lot of people living in
that region.
>> And by the way, it's a region that has
worked very [music] hard to try to
appeal to foreigners. foreigners,
whether it be to come live there or
foreign businesses to come in. What
happens when that appearance of security
and a stabilization is somewhat
shattered? John, the other thing that
I'm trying to get my head around this
morning [music] is the reaction in
Israeli markets. I realize smaller, more
local, but to have Israeli stocks trade
at a record high, to have the shekele
surge 2% versus the dollar, that seems
to be pricing that maybe this is a
12-day war impact. Maybe this can come
to a conclusion quite quickly. the
different reaction of markets and just
the degree to which we're willing to
price and sustain conflict. It seems
that we're not quite willing to go there
yet. [music]
>> As things stand, the president's talking
about weeks and not days. Now, that can
change, but that's as things stand.
Equity futures so far this morning
negative by 1% on the S&P. Coming up
this hour, Peter Chair of Academy
Securities as the US conflict with Iran
throws markets into chaos. The retired
Colonel Joel Raburn joins us as
President Trump warns operations could
last weeks. Plus, Steven Shaw of the
Shaw Group as oil prices jumped the most
in almost four years. We begin this out
with stocks falling and Brent surging.
Peter chair of Academy Securities
writing a change in regime rather than
regime change in Iran could be more
stable bringing a group willing to work
with Washington. Pete joins us now for
more. Pete, good morning.
>> Good morning,
>> Pete. We are not there yet. So, let's
start with one market energy and let's
start with crude both WTI and Brent.
You've got a spot price and then you've
got to move further out along the curve.
What are you seeing? So, I think the
price action's reasonable right now.
It's up a little bit. I think we priced
in a lot. The way Saturday morning went,
it was so good for the Allies.
Everything was going swimmingly. Now, as
you pointed out, we're starting to see
more attacks coming back. We're seeing
some losses of troops, of equipment. So,
you have to price in a little bit more
risk. I still ultimately think this
calms down. We don't see a permanent
disruption of the straight and we can
move on from here. So, I'm actually
constructive. I'd be taking energy
markets lower probably from here. I want
to, you know, take some profits there
and that's kind of my view is that we'll
be calm and overall equities can rebound
from.
>> Help us identify the thing that you're
looking at that tells you the volume
will be turned down in the coming days.
>> I think one the leadership at some
level, right? And I think even Trump
mentioned now almost a Venezuela 2.0
type thing, right? This is probably not
going to be regime change. He himself
has talked about that probably one of
the biggest mistakes we made in Iraq was
dismantling the entire regime and it
turned into chaos. So I think he is
looking for someone to rise up within
Iran who says I want to be in power and
I want to be alive in a few weeks. I
want my family to be alive. How do we
make some sort of deal? And I think at
some point it's going to be hard to
figure out who comes to the top. But
there is a power vacuum and I could
easily see someone deciding, hey, I can
grab some power and stay alive. And I
think that's what I'm looking for.
>> Doesn't that make it more chaotic and
not less that Thyron this time is not
Tyrron is not Caracus?
>> It is been chaotic. It's still chaotic.
It's very unclear who's going to rise up
and try and take advantage of that
situation. But again, if you view the
IRGC less as a military unit and more as
a thuggish sort of oligarch type
community, it seems more plausible that
someone comes into that and says, "Hey,
here's our chance to be leaders to take
control of the situation. We will play
incredibly nice with the US and maybe in
six months or a year they go away and we
can get back to what we need, but I need
to survive." I mean the fact that we
have been so successful and the I think
the things when I go back you look at
what the US and Israel have done. I
think the intelligence was way better
than anyone thought. The success of the
initial attacks were way better than
anything thought and so far the Iranian
attacks have still been kind of muted.
Like I would not be comfortable putting
my life on the line as an Iranian trying
to fight the US and Israel right now.
>> But what do you make of them involving
other Middle Eastern nations of the Gulf
now being enraged? Doesn't that change
the dynamic and maybe the willingness or
the appearance of willingness of Iran to
come to the table and have a
negotiation?
>> I think maybe they miscalculated. I
think maybe they thought okay they could
you know rise up everyone against the
you know mighty state in US and I think
it failed and I think for the last six
months whenever on show and we talk
about the Middle East I never deviate
very much from most of the Middle East
just wants to make data centers right
the Middle East has moved away from all
sorts of other things. They want to
westernize their economy. They see a
huge opportunity in data centers. I
think they already didn't want to do
anything that disrupts that and they are
going to be supportive of kind of ending
this because Iran is right now the last
stumbling block to them being
successful.
>> So if you fade the move in oil, do you
do the same in other risk markets? Do
you do the same in treasuries too this
morning?
>> I I think treasuries are going to be a
little bit weaker going forward anyways.
I think we got ahead of ourselves. You
know at 4:30 I was looking for fours on
tens. I think we had a confluence of
events including kind of a lot of
monthend index buying as well as people
putting on hedges. It took Treasury
yields too low. So I think they back off
a little bit regardless of what happens.
And on equities I think we get a bounce
and then we go back to the AI disruption
story. That is the real story is AI
disruption and as we talked a little bit
about this weekend is is credit starting
to get affect a little bit more is
what's been more of a private credit
CLLO business development core problem
starting to leak into potentially public
you know credit and that to me would be
the risk.
>> You wrote about this over the weekend.
Are we entering that phase, that phase
of tension where you begin to sell what
you can and not what you want?
>> Yeah. And you know, I always half
jokingly say is nine out of 10en high
yield bond sell-offs were created by EM
bond sell-offs. And at some point when a
bond's down 20 points, someone says, why
are we hitting the bid at 80 on this?
This bond that's, you know, somewhat
similar close. It's 99. Let's sell that.
And I feel you start looking at where
you've been and you know, you've seen
clo the equity got hit. Now you're
seeing the measron. You're not yet
seeing the AAA, but you see that bleed
out. You saw a little bit of pressure on
credit spreads last week. Again,
probably in line with equities, but I
think this gets harder to ignore is if
people are really getting nervous about
the exposure they're sitting on and
cannot do anything about their private
credit exposure, do they reduce their
exposure to public credit? And I think
that's we're teetering on that. I don't
think it's a given, but that risk
>> I've known you a long long time and you
would often say the risk is where the
AAA bucket is. The perceived safety is
where the risk actually sits. Where do
you think that is now?
>> [clears throat]
>> That is a little bit what's concerning
me is because I do think public private
credit had a little bit of that aura of
being safe. You could just put your
money there and it was all good. And I
do think some of the AAA assets, right?
That's where people don't expect losses.
Why I always say it's in a safe asset
because to me that's where the leverage
appears. People leverage up safe assets.
Plus people go from like on a billion
dollars worrying about I'm going to get
extra half basis point like oh my gosh
if I lose some of this billion dollars
I'm screwed. So I think that to me is
why this gets scary as you move to these
safer assets and things that had the
perception of safety. I think people
overposition themselves and it's always
easy to say, "Oh yeah, I know I don't
need liquidity. You need liquidity." And
I always come back kind of hand and fist
with this is there's always more money
lost in credit by being a forced seller
than there is from defaults. But are we
teetering on that point where people get
nervous enough and reduce their
positions? I'm also interested in wider
spillover effects of that specifically
on the economy because these private
credit giants with all of the assets
that they've gathered be it
institutional or retail or otherwise
have been able to fund huge AI data
center buildouts which have been a key
pillar of the economy over the past year
if all of a sudden their position gets
more tricky they can't fund raise at all
they're forced to go into more risk
management does that threaten the
project of AI buildout
>> yeah I think there's a lot to unpack in
that and again it's you know that's why
we t you this weekend's report is credit
whispering or screaming and so far I
think it's been a slight whisper and I
think equities has kind of been leading
credit lower we are I think at that cusp
right if that next turn event people are
either going to have to go on debt diets
are going to have to do something to
appease the credit markets that puts
some risk in all of this so I think
that's where we're at is we start seeing
an ex extended period of credit widening
which I'm not sure we get but if that
starts happening I don't see how
equities can do well in that environment
given how important the debt build is to
the buildout
>> Pete let's wrap it about 8% moves across
WTI and Brent so far this morning.
Academy is filled with military
experience at the moment. As you sit
there and have the committee meetings
over the next couple of days, what are
you and the team focused on?
>> Again, primarily what's the possibility
of getting some sort of a deal or regime
change? And I think a true regime change
is really impossible. You know, the
security apparatus in Iran is too big.
They're not going to get this uprising.
You would have to have a lot of people
turn over in the Iranian military to
allow some sort of uprising. So, it's
going to have to be some sort of a deal
and we're closely watching. Does someone
decide, hey, let's really shut down the
straits of Hammoods. That becomes really
problematic. We're not seeing that. We
don't think anyone's incentivized. And
we're keeping a close eye on China as
well because China is always at the
other end of everything we're doing.
China has huge stockpiles of oil. That's
the other thing that gives me some
degree of comfort for the coming weeks.
>> A lot of energy going through the
straight going to China. Pete, it's good
to see you as always. Thank you, sir.
Peter Cheer there of Securities to go
through the moves again in the energy
market. Brent up 8% a little bit more
than that at the moment. 79 on Brent,
WTI 7251. With an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief,
let's catch up with Nora Melinda for
more. Hey, Nora.
>> Good morning, John. European gas futures
are soaring as [music] Qatar is halting
all LNG and gas related production due
to Iranian drone attacks. Qatara Energy
earlier said a drone had targeted a
water tank at a power plant in the
complex and another energy facility.
Qatar Energy operates the world's top
LNG export plants by complex capacity
and Brent jumping by as much as 13%
topping $82 a barrel before leveling
off. Oil markets are bracing for
prolonged volatility as tanker traffic
through the straight of Hormuz stalls.
About a fifth of the world's oil and
liqufied natural gas typically flowing
through the straight every day. Airlines
across the Gulf are extending the
suspension of their operations. The UAE
saying it handled more than 20,000
passengers who were impacted by the
disruption. Several airports [music] in
the Gulf were hit in the crossfire as
Iran sent missiles and drones across the
region. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> and Nora, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program,
achieving all objectives.
>> The United States and its partners have
launched Operation Epic Fury. Combat
operations continue at this time in full
force and they will continue until all
of our objectives are achieved.
>> We'll talk about those objectives
[music] in just a moment. We'll catch up
with the former National Security
Council member, retired Colonel Joel
Rabburn from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg [music]
TV.
>> [music]
>> We are holding on to losses this
morning. We're down 1% on the S&P, down
by 1.4 on the NASDAQ. And crude is
holding on to gains. WTI and Brent so
far this morning look like this up by
more than 8%. Brent getting closer to 80
again [music] at 79, just short of that
level. WTI 7239
under Sylvanas this morning achieving
all objectives.
>> The United States and its partners have
launched Operation Epic Fury. Iran's
formerly Supreme Leader
Ayatollah
Jame
is dead. The entire military command is
gone as well. Combat operations continue
at this time in full force and they will
continue until all of our objectives are
achieved.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
president telling the New York Times the
assault on Iran could last four to five
weeks. The president calling on Thran's
leaders to seed power to the nation's
people. Bloomber's Tyler Kendall joins
us now for more. Morning Tyler.
>> Hey John, good morning. Well, as you
heard, President Trump says that the US
military campaign will continue in quote
full force as the US looks to achieve
its objectives. President Trump has
offered various goals of this military
operation, though at this point it is
not totally clear how the White House is
measuring progress, though the president
did confirm the US has successfully hit
hundreds of Iranian military targets. A
group of senior administration officials
did brief US reporters in a press call
over the weekend and said that these
strikes largely started after what was
disappointing progress in the Iran
nuclear talks last week. As you well
know, there have been big disagreements
about Iran's domestic enrichment
capacity, but also the fact that these
key agenda items were not put on the
table, namely Iran's ballistic missile
program. And now a person familiar with
the matter confirms to Bloomberg News
that the CIA had been tracking and
monitoring Iran's Supreme Leader for
months and that ultimately the US
changed the timeline of these strikes
based off of those findings. The
president did indicate in an interview
with the New York Times he would be
willing to negotiate with Iran's
transitory government, saying that
perhaps this could take the shape of
something similar to what happened in
Venezuela, saying that potentially we
could see some of Iran's leaders remain
in power if they're willing to seed to
US demands. Though, of course, President
Trump has also called on the Iranian
people to overtake their government. It
is important to note that Iran's
security chief overnight did deny
reports that the country has reached out
to the US for talks. John, I will also
add that later on this morning, we will
hear from the Pentagon for the first
time in a public briefing that's set for
8:00 a.m. Eastern. We're expecting to
hear from Secretary Pete Hegath as well
as the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff Dan Kaine.
>> We'll make a note of that. Tyler, thank
you. That's happening in the next hour.
Tyler Kendall from the White House this
morning. To extend the conversation, the
former National Security Council member,
retired Colonel Joel Rabin joins us now
for more. Colonel Rabin, welcome to the
program, sir, and thank you for joining
us. In your experience, given what
you've seen over the weekend, do you see
a path to deescalation here?
>> Well, yes, because I mean, in this
military phase, the outcome is
essentially uh it's it's concluded
already. It's just a matter of time. Uh
the Iranian regime has uh lost control
of its own airspace over its capital. Uh
the Israeli Air Force, US Air Force is
essentially uh control. It's it it can
strike targets at its leisure uh over
Tehran.
You just simply can't continue an
organized defense against that kind of
uh military pressure.
>> What kind of nuisance do you think
Iranian proxies still can cause in the
region?
just that a nuisance. They're they're
not going to be able to tip the
strategic balance. I mean, you saw
overnight, I think a group that was
probably Hezbollah launched six missiles
from Lebanon into Israel. That's
essentially that that's fairly suicidal.
If Hezbollah were to try to escalate,
they they don't have any capacity to
resist Israeli pressure there either.
And I'm sure the Israelis have a pretty
robust war plan contingency to uh to be
able to take out those kind of Hezbollah
assets if it does escalate. So if it is
a weakened regime that needs to
negotiate, Colonel, what does that look
like? What do negotiations look like?
And what sort of leadership do you
estimate will arise in Iran?
>> I I would think if if it if if you do go
into a a scenario, as the president sort
of outlined, a Venezuela type of
scenario, you'd be looking at remnants
of Revolutionary Guards uh leadership
reaching out there. There are some
political factions and figures that are
also associated with the Revolutionary
Guards. I would expect them uh to to be
sort of at the head of of the remnants
of the regime to reach out. I've always
thought that figures such as uh the
Iranian parliament speaker Muhammad Bakr
Kalabah, for example, I know his name's
not really known in the west, but he's
very well known in Iran. This is a guy
who was a former revolutionary guards
general, was also the mayor of Thrron
and is now the speaker of the
parliament. He's always been he's had
one foot in politics and one foot in the
revolutionary guards. He's not alone.
There's there are different figures like
that who if they survive the coming week
or so I would think I would be voted
most likely to be the Deli Rodriguez
figure in in Thrron for an interim phase
I don't think that that means that that
kind of regime would be sustainable
because of the intense popular pressure
against that regime and its own weakened
state but at least for a transitional
phase as the president was referring to
I think you would have figures like that
who are sort of pragmatic survivors as
opposed to ideologically driven
millinarians who are just looking for
martyrdom.
>> So if you then have an Iran that's more
willing to speak and to negotiate with
the US, what does that mean of China's
position who not only witnessed that
happen in Venezuela, one of its key
allies, but now may witness the same
change happening in Iran? What does the
country, what does leadership, what
doesn't President Xi do in this
scenario? Yeah, it's a tough situation
for uh for President Xi because the
Iranian regime has been such
as an energy supplier as well as a a
strategic military lever uh that the
Chinese have been able to use from time
to time. So, they're going to be looking
very hard at what comes in the wake of
this Kame regime. They're going to have
an an enormous stake in trying to uh
retain their influence in Thran with a
follow-on regime. No matter whether
that's a a remnant regime of the Islamic
Republic or that's some kind of new
democratic regime. The Chinese have a
huge stake in in trying to ensure that
it's that it's a China friendly regime.
So they will be in there competing. But
so will all the other regional powers,
the world powers. It's going to be an
incredible race for influence in Thrron
if there is a follow on regime. Colonel,
it's been unbelievable the developments
we've already seen in 2026. You
mentioned Venezuela and what we saw out
of Caracus just two months ago and now
in Iran. Is there a coherent strategy
here in your mind that we should be
following?
>> I a national security strategy mean I I
think there is. I I think and and I
think with President Trump, it it's uh
he has an instinct uh for essentially uh
trying to uh trying to reduce uh the
influence and the and the capacity of
this crank uh alliance or coalition if
you will, China, Russia, Iran, North
Korea, and some of its other satellites
like Venezuela, like the Cuban regime or
formerly, you know, the Assad regime and
some of their non-state actors like
Hezbollah. I I I do think the president
uh and I I saw this in the in the first
administration as well when I was on the
National Security Council staff. He has
an instinct to try to break up that
coalition using different uh levers of
power including the economic lever of
power which is I I think his his uh
instrument of choice if you will.
>> What do you think the next step will be
>> in Iran or in the national security
strategy? I I I think in in Iran look
the military phase is not going to last
too long. I I know people are people are
apprehensive about that right now, but
we're talking about an Iranian regime
that simply doesn't have the military
capabilities to continue for very long.
Uh they have a finite number of missile
launchers which are being hunted right
now and eventually those will come down
to a level where they're not
operationally significant anymore. So
we're really talking about what will be
the political next step in Thrron. Will
there be a a Venezuela or Deli Rodriguez
type of interim uh phase there where
where there will be a there will be a
remnant regime that will say okay okay
no moss let's talk about those four
demands you had of us a couple of weeks
ago and if you get to that stage then I
think you can see things stabilize and
also that would open up a window of
opportunity for a very different Middle
East because the commune regime has been
so destabilizing over the last three
decades its absence already is going to
have a huge impact regardless of how
things go forward.
>> Colonel, just finally, and just quickly
with regards to the national security
strategy, as the developments in Iran
pertain to that, what would the next
steps be?
>> Well, I I I think it's very Look, you're
you're talking about suddenly the the
removal of a key lynch pin, a hinge
member of this strategic military
coalition of China, Iran, and Russia.
And it's going to be a huge setback to
both China and Russia in their regional
ambitions. It it the the absence of the
Kame regime is going to have a ripple
effect in Ukraine, for example. I would
say it it's going to put uh Vladimir
Putin under a lot more pressure because
he will have lost his drone and missile
supplier as well as an energy partner
and a and a strategic intelligence ally.
And you have to think that over in Asia
it will have a ripple effect too on the
kind of pressure uh that President Xi is
able to put on the local region.
>> Colonel, I appreciate your time as
always. Thanks for joining us, sir.
Retired Colonel Joel Raben there.
Colonel Rabin with his insight on the
region. Tremendous experience over the
years in the Middle East. The next
steps, what are they? A more aggressive
stance with Russia. Do you start looking
at Cuba as well? We've seen a lot
develop and Q1 is nowhere near over. And
I think part of the reason it's hard to
ascertain what the next steps are is
because this isn't a president who
launched a public campaign before doing
this. [music] It came to a surprise to
many. This is very different. This is
not George Bush in 2003. So that leaves
it some uncertainty as
>> debate about that down in Washington DC.
That's for sure. Up next on the program,
Sancho Jam of JP Morgan on growing
volatility in credit markets. Plus,
we'll get you some morning movers. Big
moves in defense names so far this
morning from New York. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Piece by piece, let's put the puzzle
together together. We're down by about
1%. [music] On the S&P right now on the
NASDAQ, we're down by 1.5. Similar move
on a small caps on the Russell also down
by 1.53%.
Sneak peek of what's happening in
energy. I think you all know what's
happening with crude. WTI and Brent
running and running quite hard up by 9%
not giving up these gains. Brent very
close to 80 again at 7929 WTI at 7277.
So what kind of shock does this present
and how do you price it in the bond
market? Check it out. Twos 1030s yields
higher across the curve up by close to
five on twos at 342 up by four on 10 and
getting closer and closer to 4% again.
It's notable that the move switched from
one of treasuries being a haven to
pricing in this to the front end of the
curve leading the damage to maybe the
inflationary impact. It still does feel
like though John and Colonel Rabborn
underscored this that the consensus is
is that the hot phase of this conflict
that it will be short-lived. That it's a
Trump eager to declare victory. It's an
Iranian regime that's significantly
weakened and doesn't have unlimited
supply of missiles and ammunition. But
when the goal is as wide as regime
change, something that [music] is
unlikely to be achieved by air power
alone, that's far from a certain
outcome.
>> What is the goal? It's so much broader
than what it was before. We saw these
attacks in the last 12 months, but it
was targeted. It was limited. And it led
to a period of deescalation, and here
[music] we are. Then it was about
nuclear capabilities. Now it's about the
Navy, and it's also about regime change
that can get messy. [music] And the
unintended consequences of that are
very, very difficult to understand. and
unintended consequences like friendly
fire leading to the downing of US jets,
[music] something that presented
confusion in the early hours of this
morning. And when you have a regime who
is faced with that existential conflict,
it's not the same as that time in June
where it was just 12 days and they did a
largely symbolic type attack [music]
back. This time it's been consistent.
It's been targeting oil infrastructure.
They've been threatening ships moving
through the street of Hormuse. a
different type of reaction. But for now,
a lot of market participants saying you
can use that as a playbook. You can fade
the move in oil and you can buy the dip
in stocks.
>> Do you want a cheat guide to financial
markets? When you see moves like this in
defense [music] names, it usually means
something bad is happening. Check out
these moves right now in defense [music]
names. Loheed Martin up by more than 5%
as anticipated. The travel names getting
absolutely hammered. Not just the
airlines, some of the cruise operators,
the [music] travel operators out of
Europe as well also getting beaten up
this morning.
>> It goes a long way to dense sentiment,
which by the way has already [music]
been pretty negative. We've talked about
all the sentiment surveys that for the
past year have been poor. What happens
when you add this type of conflict into
it? What happens when people have been
planning global vacations that need to
stop through these hubs? This is what
the airlines have been saying. The
reason that our earnings are holding up
is because very wealthy people want to
travel internationally. Surely this
complicates things [music] if you can't
travel through those very important hubs
in the Middle East.
>> Once you punch for some of those names,
one sentiment, two, fuel costs. On our
radar this morning, our top story, the
president saying the bombing campaign
against Iran could last weeks and is
calling on the nation's leaders to
surrender. [music]
>> I once again urge the revolutionary
guard, the Iranian military police to
lay down your arms and receive full
immunity or face certain death. I call
upon all Iranian patriots who yearn for
freedom to seize this moment and take
back your country. America is with you.
>> Iran security chief saying tyran will
not negotiate with the United States.
The secretary of state Marco Rubio said
to brief leaders of the House and Senate
at 4 p.m. today on the military action
against Iran. The Trump administration
launching the operation Saturday morning
without congressional approval. And the
fallout from US and Israeli strikes on
Iran disrupting thousands of flights in
the Middle East, temporary and partial
closures of the airspace in the region
leading to the closure of airports in
Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Doha. Let's keep it
on the markets for you. Joining us now
from the JP Morgan leverage Finance
Conference in Miami, BRMO with a special
guest. Morning Lisa.
>> Hi, good morning John. I am here in
Miami, Sanjay Jamna, the global head of
credit trading and about 15 other titles
which I won't get into right now.
joining us here at a time where there's
a lot of questions around credit. Of
course, the events over the weekend have
taken front stage last week when we
spoke. You said on the top concern for a
lot of investors, geopolitics just
wasn't there. Is it still the case this
morning after the events that transpired
over the weekend?
>> Thank you, Lisa. It's amazing to be here
and uh look, all the conversations that
we had on the weekend with clients
indicate that they're still open for
business. They will be attentive to
energy prices. They will be attentive to
rates in particular which are very
relevant for credit products but by and
large they're laser focused on staying
ahead of the curve. They don't see this
as a complete surprise and they will
keep on looking at what's coming in
order to decide no change in strategy.
>> You said that they are uh saying this
wasn't a huge surprise and I'm wondering
was this baked in right? I mean, how
much has this been part of some of the
risk aversion that we've seen over the
past couple of days and weeks that most
people have been attributing to credit
concerns?
>> So, that's really interesting. Clients
have for the most part looked at the
geopolitics and the macro risk really
through the lens of what it means for
the economy and all conversations have
been incredibly consistent. They've
looked at AI as being the main driver
and the main driver both on the AI capex
spend and how much is going to be spent,
how much is going to come to the credit
markets and on the other side the flip
side of that which is the disruption,
margin compression, competition, what it
means for obsolescence and business
model transition.
>> We're going to get into the AI
discussion and some of the disruption
that we've seen in credit in just a
second. Staying on the economy though
and the idea that the conflict in the
Middle East, the war in Iran that that
could lead to a spike in oil prices,
there's a question here about the
backdrop of the global economy and
frankly the US economy and how stable
things are, right? How strong is the
economy to withstand a possible shock?
Are you getting a sense from investors?
There are 3,000 people here this
conference. You're having a lot of
conversations. Are you getting a sense
of how confident people are in the
economic backdrop to be resilient
through some sort of crisis?
It's it's amazing like credit is the
asset class of the moment. Why? For the
reasons you just pointed out Lisa, which
is yields which are elevated, robust
company fundamentals which are continue
to bring inflows into the asset class.
You see it in primary with elevated
record levels of issuance and you see it
in secondary as well record secondary
trading volumes and that's the part
which is often missed which is the
impact of algorithmic and electronic on
how credit trades.
>> Right now we have been talking about
some of the disruptions in credit and
how it's been stemming from the private
credit market. Is this just tied to
software? Is this tied to something in
terms of a real check on an asset class
that hasn't been through a credit cycle
in its current iteration? What's your
take on what we're seeing the sort of
pockets of dislocation and whether it
could be become something a bit more
systemic?
>> So, every time that you've got like a
tremendous productivity boost, there
will be some consolidation and that's
what the market has been focused on
which are who are going to be the
losers. What participants haven't
focused on as much but will is that
there will also be big winners. Those
companies which harness the power of the
new technology in order to gain share.
If I had to venture the share of
software in GDP will be in 5 years
bigger not smaller.
>> At the same time there is a likelihood
of a pretty messy uh next few months and
weeks. I'm just wondering how much
you're feeling like there are investors
with large pools of capital who are
getting into ready to buy and are seeing
opportunities versus those that are
feeling increasingly vulnerable to
potentially having to sell.
>> So it's interesting like markets have
been very orderly. I think that credit
investors understand that some amount of
sectoral and company stress is just
[music] a normal part of a normal credit
cycle. So they're looking at this as an
immense opportunity to see dispersion
and to see opportunities as you say to
deploy capital at interesting levels.
>> So right now you're seeing this more as
an opportunity even now with some of the
fears about say cockroaches and people
doing dumb stuff.
>> We see the credit market as being a the
asset class of the moment because it
provides those opportunities. As you
said there's noise in the BDC space.
There is focus on software and there
will be on other sectors as well but
that is just a normal part of a normal
credit cycle. We've been in an
environment for years where default
rates were very low and so I think
participants to some extent have gotten
used to an environment where rates are
where sorry default rates are very low
but it's just normal part of credit
cycle. last week uh at the JP Morgan
annual investor conference the team was
talking about how it's going to be an
incredible year for trading revenues an
incredible year for trading profits can
you give some sense about what that
trading looks like why you've seen such
an increase
>> so as I was saying first of all credit
is the asset class of the moment
continued inflows and we see the secular
trends that are powering that as being
intact but also more importantly the way
credit is transacted today has changed
profoundly. The impact of electronic and
algorithmic trading 90% of our tickets
are electronic. That's 90%. Right? And
clients are very sophisticated. Clients
have gotten sophisticated in using those
tools. 25% of our flows are portfolio
trading. That's a client favorite in
order to rebalance hundreds to thousand
line items in markets which are normal
or stressed. One other thing that you
and I have been talking about uh over
the past week is how much AI has changed
the way you do your job and the way that
your team does their jobs. And I'm just
wondering if you can give us a sense of
how you see this evolving in your own
business in terms of how it changes the
role of a credit trader.
>> AI will revolutionize credit markets. So
let me unpack this a little. Credit
markets is the last frontier when it
comes to market automation. Why? Because
the problem statement is a bit more
complex than in other asset classes. In
munis alone, we have a million active
QIPS. It means a lot of sparse data. It
means a lot of unstructured data. And
so, traditional AI models are not always
well fit for that. However, it's the
perfect problem for generative AI. And
so we see generative AI and aentic
systems already penetrating the p
private credit market in particular
where it's truly optimistic about how
that's going to develop.
>> How will that change the composition of
who's a player and who's not in terms of
do you see see this actually impacting
your desk in terms of the size of it
making it smaller or do you see it for
example taking out quant traders who
might be making their entire business on
capitalizing on some of those
differences. Right now
>> I think that the the the the coding base
in particular the fact that there are a
number of systematic that are using
coding and so on and so forth that
toolkit will level that playing field
immensely and it's going to reset who
can compete and how they can compete. I
think it will impact everybody and in
hindsight when you look back in general
what is the one factor that determines
who is a winner and who is a is not a
winner. It is really how forwardleaning
the management has been the culture has
been and how much they embrace those
things more than where they stood at the
start.
>> Do you think that there going to be
fewer credit traders needed?
>> We'll see.
>> So this is sort of a question of the
evolution. Sanjay Jamna, thank you so
much for being with us today. That's
Sanjay Jamna, the global head of credit
trading here at the JP Big Morgan
Leverage Finance Conference in Miami
with 3,000 people and a big thunderstorm
yesterday. So, not as much sun as I
would have hoped.
>> Very cool. Apart from the weather stuff,
of course, Lisa, thank you. Appreciate
it as always. We'll see Lisa again in
the next hour or so. Of course, tune in
at 2 p.m. Eastern time as well for
Lisa's sitdown conversation with Jamie
Diamond, the JP Morgan chairman and CEO.
That's taking place a little bit later
this afternoon. Taking place in about 20
minutes time tracking the latest
developments out of the Middle East.
This right here, 8 a.m. Eastern time. A
briefing from the Pentagon with the
Secretary of Defense Hex and Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Dan
Kaine. Look out for that. We'll take
that right here on Bloomberg TV in about
20 minutes time. Let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Nora Melinda for more. Hey Nora.
>> Good morning, John. A fourth US service
member has died following an Iranian
attack on American troops in [music] the
region. US Central Command confirming
the update which follows three other
service members being killed in action
over the weekend. Four additional
service members remain in serious
condition. The US did not disclose the
location of the attacks and three US
F-15 jets went down over Kuwait due to
an apparent friendly fire [music]
incident. That's according to a post on
Axe. Central Command saying all six air
crew ejected safely have been recovered
and are in stable condition. During
active combat, the US Air Force fighter
jets were mistakenly shot down by
Kuwaiti air [music] defenses, but the
cause of the incident under
investigation. More than half of the
world's largest maritime insurance clubs
are ending coverage for war risks for
ships entering [music] the Persian Gulf
starting Thursday. According to notices
seen by Bloomberg, coverage will be
terminated automatically if vess vessels
enter the Persian Gulf. Other terms of
coverage will remain unchanged. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Hey Nora, thank you. I appreciate it.
Thank you very much. Up next on the
program, a standstill in Horus.
>> Iran has the means, the ability to make
Hormuz unsafe for longer than the
market, I think, uh, expects.
>> Up next, Steven Shul of the Shaw Group
live from New York City. [music] You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
So, let's start with stocks and then
we'll get to energy. Big moves in
[music] gas prices over in Europe.
Stocks are pulling back down by about 1%
on the S&P. Similar move on the NASDAQ.
We're down by 1.4. In crude, WTI and
Brent gapping high at the open yesterday
evening. Holding on to some of those
levels now up 9%. Brent crude just short
of the 80s, 7945. And this move over in
Europe. Gas prices surging 50%. [music]
About an hour and 50 minutes ago, we saw
the headline cross the Bloomberg
terminal that Qatar LG production had
come to a halt. And ever since that
headlines dropped, this move we've seen
in gas prices out of Europe has taken on
a life of its own.
>> And I it's an important development
because initially a lot of the
conversation surrounded the straight of
Hormuse, [music] it's closed, is it
open? Open open in principle, maybe not
in practice. But this is different
because if you can have energy come
online very quickly once you reopen the
straight of Hormuz, [music] what happens
if oil energy infrastructure is attacked
and damaged? That seems to be the longer
scale and a more conflicted or a longer
drawn out issue of this conflict.
[music]
If the very energy infrastructure itself
faces damage, that's not something that
can quickly be resolved.
>> So when you start to see these moves in
energy, you start to think about the
inflationary impulse off the back of
this. And with that in mind, you start
to think about whether it constrains the
put as central banks around the world.
At the Federal Reserve, that's the first
place I'd go to. The Bank of England,
this headline just crossed in the
Bloomberg. money markets pairing wages
on a rate cut [music] in March to just
50%. We thought that was like on the
money that's going to happen over on
Thread Needle Street. Does this
commodity story change things? But it's
not straightforward necessarily of
higher commodity prices, [music] more
inflation. That's something Anna Wong
was pointing out in X over the weekend
saying that higher energy costs could
essentially act as a tax on the
consumer. And it means that yes, they
still spend on gas, but they pull back
on spending elsewhere with an already
very fragile consumer sentiment readings
as it stands. So what happens if the net
impact of this is more on GDP coming
back in that yes, higher inflation, but
[music] then yet again you get the
conflicting two different mandates of
the Fed that inflation goes up, but
growth weakens as an impact of this.
Maybe in that scenario, you're still
looking at cuts to come.
>> So bonds dazed and confused [music]
following a major rally last month.
Yields down by 30 basis points declining
through 4% this morning higher by six
basis points at the front end of the
curve. Twos's up to 343 up by five on 10
39868 [music] on a 10-year maturity this
morning. Let's talk about energy under
surveillance this morning a standstill
in Hummers.
While President Trump like his
predecessors do not want to see high oil
prices, he is willing to take risk of
high oil prices. Iran has the means, the
ability to make Hormuz unsafe for longer
than the market, I think, uh, expects.
The only real leverage the Iranian
regime can hope to have is over the
price of oil. So, here's the latest this
morning. Crude spiking the most in
almost four years as tensions are
escalating in the Middle East. Tanker
traffic through the straight of
effectively halted, threatening about a
fifth of the world's crude. Steven Shock
of the Short Group writing the
following. A regime fighting for its
survival will eventually make a move
that surprises. Position for volatility,
not direction. Steven joins us now for
more. Steven, welcome. Your line from
over the weekend. Whether the template
from June 2025 is the right one. Is this
different?
>> Uh, it very well could be. Now, we
actually have two templates to play with
here. Of course, we have what occurred
in the late 1990s and early 1991 when
Iraq invaded Kuwait. Uh, and then of
course, we had the 12-day war back in
June. In both instances, we saw a
significant spike in prices immediately,
but an even greater drop in prices
afterwards. And that was the market's
way of telling us that the resolution
was going to be quick and it was going
to be positive. In 1991, it was kicking
Sodom out of Kuwait. That was a
positive. Prices crashed and 12-day war.
The objective, we had a finish line. It
was to neutralize uh excuse me, Iran's
nuclear program. And that was for the
time being achieved quick resolution.
Prices crashed. Now we have the
asymmetry of we have an open line now.
We have no uh finish line. So the stated
goal is to overthrow the theocracy in
Tran. So whether that happens quickly or
not depends. So that is the key
asymmetry. So what we are concerned
about and the only catalyst that will
drive oil prices sustained higher would
be a disruption a long-term disruption
to the flow of oil. So of course we're
talking about the straighter moods. Now
right now we do have an effective
blockade on the straight being that we
have now made it uninsurable. So there
are no tankers that are going to uh
transit the straight. So that is the key
uh uh situation. But if we do get a
quick military resolution, that blockade
effectively gets lifted immediately and
there we have the scenario for low oil
prices. The concern now is if the
theocracy in Tran is able to hold on.
We're no longer dealing with a rational
player. Back in June, there was no
concern about a closure to the straight
of Hammuz because the regime did not
feel threatened. So the regime wasn't
going to alienate itself from its Arab
trading partners in the Gulf or its
clients in India and China. Therefore,
they had consequences. A regime that is
now under threat does not fear
consequences. So there is the very real
uh threat now that we go below uh beyond
a soft blockade of the straight and a
hard blockade of straight with either
mining or missile attacks on vessels
transiting. So either way it all comes
down now to timing. Do we how quickly is
this resolved? It's resolved quickly.
I.e. in a couple of weeks that blockade
gets uh lifted immediately. And let's
not uh let's recall that we have about
1.7 billion barrels sitting in
Can I ask about that blockade and the
likelihood of it because a lot of
digital ink has been spilled that
perhaps Iran doesn't have the
capabilities to fully issue a blockade
that they don't have unlimited supply of
weapons that laying down mines would be
costly for them themselves once they
want to reopen the waterway. What in
your estimation is the full extent of
pain that Iran can have when it comes to
oil energy infrastructure in the state
of Hormuse?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, the big threat now
here is first of all with the blockade.
Uh they don't need to take a hard
blockade. Uh as we said, you made the
straight right now unpassable. It's
uninsurable. Therefore, you do
effectively have your blockade. Now, the
real concern now is what do we do about
oil production? Well, there have been
reports that Iran has gone after some of
Saudi Qatari as we know has been shut
down and that is a real concern. The
concern that we do not have from a
USIsraeli standpoint is we do not have
any sort of threat on Iran's oil
production. We are not going to that was
not a threat back in June and is not a
threat today. That is the worst thing
that the Israelis or the United States
could do. What we want or what the
stated goal is is to overthrow the
theocracy and bring in a more democratic
egalitarian government into Iran. That
government's going to need cash. It's
going to need income to succeed. That
income comes in the form of oil
production. So oil production is not
under threat at this point from a
standpoint of being attacked by US or
Israeli or even Arab uh forces in
reaction to attacks on their
infrastructure. The concern here now is
once again we have an irrational player.
What did Saddam Hussein do when he lost?
He burned Kuwaiti's oil fields. So that
is your threat at this point. Limited
but it is a threat.
>> Much of this is unpredictable. Stephen,
we appreciate your time, sir. Steven
Shock there of the short group tracking
crude prices. Check them out. The high
overnight 8237 a gap higher of more than
13%. Still close to the 80s on Bren
about 7915 as we speak. That view, I
have to say, still doesn't feel
consensus, that this could be drawn out.
A lot of the commentary that you and I
have heard this morning is that this is
a president and an Iranian regime who
doesn't want this to be a very long
drawn out process, that President Trump,
for political reasons, this would hurt
him going into the midterm, that Iran
doesn't have unlimited weapons. I do
think that point is important though,
that they face an existential threat.
And what happens when you're backed into
a corner and act out irrationally? That
then you could see a long tale to this
conflict. That's what makes this very,
very chaotic. We need some insight from
the government. We should get some in
about 5 minutes time. We'll be hearing
from the defense secretary, Pete Hexath,
in a briefing from the Pentagon at 8:00
a.m. Eastern [music] time. We'll have
reaction from Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo,
Catherine O'Donnell of JP Morgan, Steve
Rashuta of Missou, Mark McCormick of
Beimo. The third hour of Blindberg
Surveillance up next.
Geopolitical [music] risk has risen to
the top. The moment that we're in is
very serious.
>> There is a lot of turmoil in the world.
>> You need to be careful and more cautious
in where you're putting your money to
work.
>> Investors might want to think about
rightsizing positions.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
The open and bound 90 minutes away. The
[music] scores, the price action looks
like this. Equity futures declining.
We're down by 1% on the S&P, down by
close [music] to 1.5 on the NASDAQ. The
epicenter, some of these moves, the
Middle East and these moves, these
developments in energy markets. Brent
and WTI higher by 8% on Brent, 78.96 and
getting closer again to $80 a barrel.
And it's important that the moves really
started to pick up steam when it became
apparent that there would be suspension
of production from Qatar for their LNG
facilities. What are the ripple effects
just beyond the straight of Hormuse?
Even though it's not closed in
principle, it might be closed in
practice. And it does feel like a very
divided community. Whether that this is
a [music] dip that you can buy, one it
is you fade or one where the uncertainty
is just too great to participate at all.
But what is clear is that this is a
president of the United States who is
emboldened and an Iranian regime that is
backed into a corner and that leaves a
lot of question marks as to how long and
what comes next.
>> We'll talk about some of the key players
involved in just a moment. Also need to
talk about developments in the bond
market. We've seen a major rally in
fixed income over the last month.
Sovereigns to be precise the 10-year
Treasury yields down by 30 basis points
last month. Yields up this morning by
[music] five on 10 399 and up by six on
twos. To what extent does that move in
energy? These developments in the Middle
East constrain [music] several central
banks this morning.
>> And that front end of the curve is very
evident that it is a market at least
believes that maybe the timeline [music]
for cuts gets pushed out. It's a BOE
that now has less pricing in order for
them to cut. It is an environment where
there was already a question mark where
inflation was already very stubborn. But
it goes further than that for this bond
market. At what point does this mean
[music] that you can buy bonds as a
haven? That seemed to be the initial
reaction and that quickly changed with
the move in energy prices. Again, it's a
question to how long this conflict is.
What happens to oil energy
infrastructure that really impacts this
American bond market.
>> We've got a lot of questions. This
briefing down in Washington DC
absolutely key. In a couple of minutes
time, we should hear [music] from the
defense secretary Pete Hexith. We should
also hear from the chairman of the joint
chiefs of staff, Daniel [music] Dan,
General Dan Kaine. And the questions
I've got, Danny, of course, we have to
start with the tragic loss of life over
the weekend. And we've lost three
servicemen in the American military. And
then we had friendly fire taking down
three jets over the skies of Q8 in the
last 24 hours too. So details on the
operation, but also the goals, the
objectives here. What are they? [music]
A year ago there were very targeted
limited. It was contained just to
nuclear capabilities. What is it now?
And how much broader is this operation?
>> And if the goal is regime change, what
does it take to get that done? It'd be
hard to imagine that that can be done
just with air f with just air power.
[music] Does something bigger need to
happen in order to get that?
>> The defense secretary Pete Hexth just
entering the room alongside the chairman
of the joint chief of staffs. [music]
Let's take a listen.
>> We just finished an update with Admiral
Brad Cooper, the scentcom commander
across the scentcom a leadership and
troops as you would expect doing a
fantastic job.
Two days ago, under the direction and
direct orders of President Donald J.
Trump, the Department of War launched
Operation Epic Fury, the most lethal,
most complex, and most precise aerial
operation in history.
For 47 long years, the expansionist and
Islamist regime in Thran has waged a
savage one-sided war against America.
They didn't always declare it openly,
except for their constant chance of
death to America. They did it through
the blood of our people. Car bombs in
Beirut, rocket attacks on our ships,
murders at our embassies, roadside bombs
in Iraq and Afghanistan, funded and
armed by Iranian Kuds force and IRGC
killers.
My generation of veterans carry the
names of brothers who never came home.
Brothers butchered by Iranianbacked
roadside bombs and well-armed militias.
thousands of our own.
We didn't start this war, but under
President Trump, we are finishing it.
Their war on Americans has become our
retribution against their Ayatollah and
his death cult.
It took the 47th president, a fighter
who always puts America first, to
finally draw the line after 47 years of
Iranian belligerance.
He reminded the world, as he has time
and time again, being an American means
something unbreakable.
If you kill Americans, if you threaten
Americans anywhere on earth, we will
hunt you down without apology and
without hesitation, and we will kill
you.
President Trump has also been very
consistent. Crazy regimes like Iran,
hellbent on prophetic Islamist
delusions, cannot have nuclear weapons.
It's common sense. Many have said it,
but it takes guts to actually enforce
it. And our president has guts.
Iran's stubborn and self-evident nuclear
pursuits, their targeting of global
shipping lanes and their swelling
arsenal of ballistic missiles and killer
drones were no longer are no longer
tolerable risks. Iran was building
powerful missiles and drones to create a
conventional shield for their nuclear
blackmail ambitions. Let me say that
again. A conventional shield for their
nuclear blackmail ambitions.
our bases, our people, our allies, all
in their crosshairs. Iran had a
conventional gun to our head as they
tried to lie their way to a nuclear
bomb. It almost worked under Obama and
his terrible deal, but not under this
president.
Turns out the regime who chanted death
to America and death to Israel was
gifted death from America and death from
Israel.
This is not a so-called regime change
war, but the regime sure did change, and
the world is better off for it. Today,
in their desperation, the enemy is
unmasked. as Iranian missiles and drones
rain down indiscriminately
on the hotels, airports, apartments, and
other civilian targets of their
neighbors. Cowardly terrorist tactics
for reg from a regime that for decades
has trafficked in cowardly terrorist
tactics, lies, death.
to stay.
The Iranian leadership has built nothing
except proxies and missiles and drones
and deeply buried nuclear factories and
facilities. Peaceful nuclear ambitions
do not need to be buried underneath
mountains.
Last June, Operation Midnight Hammer
obliterated their nuclear program to
rubble. Afterward, we told them plainly,
"That's it. Now make a deal." They
arrogantly refused. We said, "Rebuild it
and we'll stop you again. This time far
worse." Well, President Trump, Secretary
Rubio, Steve Witco, Jared Kushner, they
bent over backwards for real diplomacy,
offering pathway after pathway to peace.
I watched it. I was there. They tried
over and over and over again earnest
attempts at peace. The former regime had
every chance to make a peaceful and
sensible deal. But Tran was not
negotiating. They were stalling, buying
time to reload their missile stockpiles
and restart their nuclear ambitions.
Their goal, hold us hostage, threatening
to strike our forces. Well,
President Trump doesn't play those
games. And as Secretary Rubio said after
the Maduro raid, "If you don't know, now
you know." President Trump puts America
and Americans first. He doesn't hesitate
and neither do our troops. The mission
of Operation Epic Fury is laser focused.
Destroy Iranian offensive missiles,
destroy Iranian missile production,
destroy their navy and other security
infrastructure, and they will never have
nuclear weapons.
We're hitting them surgically,
overwhelmingly, and unapologetically.
With every passing day, our capabilities
get stronger and Iran's get weaker. We
set the terms of this war from start to
finish. Our ambitions are not utopian.
They are realistic, scoped to our
interests and the defense of our people
and our allies.
Speaking of people,
we hope the Iranian people take
advantage of this incredible
opportunity. President Trump has been
clear. Now is your time
to Iran Iranian security forces.
Choose wisely.
President Trump has also been clear
about your fate in either direction.
To the media outlets and political lefts
screaming endless wars, stop. This is
not Iraq. This is not endless. I was
there for both. Our generation knows
better and so does this president. He
called the last 20 years of nation
building wars dumb. And he's right. This
is the opposite.
This operation is a clear, devastating,
decisive mission. Destroy the missile
threat, destroy the navy, no nukes.
Israel has clear missions as well for
which we are grateful.
Capable partners. As we've said since
the beginning, capable partners are good
partners.
Unlike so many of our traditional allies
who ring their hands and clutch their
pearls, hemming and hawing about the use
of force,
America, regardless of what so-called
international institutions say, is
unleashing the most lethal and precise
air power campaign in history. B2s,
fighters, drones, missiles, and of
course, classified effects.
All on our terms with maximum
authorities. No stupid rules of
engagement, no nation building quagmire,
no democracy building exercise, no
politically correct wars. We fight to
win and we don't waste time or lives.
of this scope will include casualties.
War is hell and always will be.
A grateful nation honors the four
Americans we have lost thus far and
those injured. The absolute best of
America.
May we prosecute the remainder of this
operation in a manner that honors them.
No apologies,
no hesitation.
epic fury for them and the thousands of
Americans before them taken too soon by
Iranian radicals.
Before I turn it over to General Kaine
for the operational update, let me speak
straight to you, the joint force, our
warriors on the front lines.
This is your moment. This is the
generational turning point America has
waited for since 1979. And since the
rudderless wars of hubris my generation,
our generation endured. Don't listen to
the noise. Just stay focused. Our
commander-in-chief is steady at the
wheel. We face a determined enemy. But
you are better.
But we must prove it every single day.
History doesn't care if we're tired, if
we're scared, or if the fight feels big.
It demands warriors who rise anyway.
Peace through strength. the warrior
ethos, lethality, unity of purpose.
Those are not slogans. They're the
beating heart of what it means to wear
the uniform, that uniform.
You think clearly under fire. You act
decisively in chaos. You uphold the
Constitution and you uphold our country
without hesitation.
We are not defenders anymore. We are
warriors trained to kill the enemy and
break their will. History is watching.
Be the force you swore an oath to be.
Focused, disciplined, lethal, and
unbreakable.
We will finish this on America first
conditions of President Trump's
choosing. Nobody else's, as it should
be. And know this above all, President
Trump and I have your back always.
Through fire, through criticism, through
fake news, through everything, we
unleash you because you are the best,
most powerful, most lethal fighting
force the world has ever seen.
May Almighty God watch over you and his
providential arms of protection extend
over you. Godspeed, warriors, and keep
going, General Kaine. Over to you. Thank
[snorts] you, Mr. Secretary, and uh good
morning everyone. The purpose of my
portion of the briefing today is to
update you and the American people on
the actions taken thus far. The briefing
will discuss the preparation, the
planning, setting the force, the early
operations, and how we're assessing the
progress thus far. Uh so, let's get
started. On Saturday, 28th February at
01:15
Eastern Standard Time, 9:45 a.m. local
tyrron time on the orders of the
president of the United States, US
Central Command under the command of
United States Navy Admiral Brad Cooper
commenced Operation Epic Fury. As I
said, I'm going to walk you through the
initial phases of the operation. But
first, I want to express my deep
condolences and the condolences of the
joint force to the Department of War
personnel killed and wounded in action
thus far. As the Secretary said, they're
heroes and represent the best of our
nation has to offer. They're true
examples of what selfless service means.
Our deepest and heartfelt condolences
are with their families, their friends,
and their units. We grieve with you and
we will never forget you. Additionally,
I stand here before you today grateful
for each service member
operator across our joint force, for our
Department of War civilians, our
intelligence community teammates, our
inter agency teammates who continue to
stand in harm's way alongside us. I am
proud of all of you as you take the
fight to the enemy and we are the best
in the world at integrating. Period. I
want to extend my personal gratitude to
the dedicated commanders and senior
enlisted leaders and the enlisted
members of the joint force who are
fighting this fight across the Sencom
AO. In addition to Admiral Cooper and
Fleet Master Chief Compton, I want to
highlight a few today. US Army Central
Command Commander Lieutenant General Pat
Frank who along with his team are
fighting the counter missile and counter
drone fight. United States Navy Central
Command Commander Vice Admiral Kurt
Renshaw and his team who are engaged
with the Iranian Navy and projecting
American naval combat power from the
seas and United States Air Force Central
Command commander Lieutenant General
Derek France and his leadership team who
are crushing Iranian targets from the
air. I want to highlight the support to
the SenCom fight from other combatant
commands who are directly involved with
this effort to include US Spacecom, US
Cybercom and US Yukon. I also want to
specifically call out United States
Transportation Command and US Stracom
for their contributions to this fight.
We cannot project American combat power
at the time and place of our choosing
without both. And finally, I want to
express how deeply thankful I am for the
continued service and sacrifice of the
entire joint force and their families.
Their unwavering commitment and
dedication are the cornerstones of this
effort. [snorts] So, let me start with a
few details.
First, to be clear, as the secretary
said, this is not a single overnight
operation. The military objectives that
SENCOM and the joint force have been
tasked with will take some time to
achieve and in some cases will be
difficult and gritty work. We expect to
take additional losses and as always we
will work to minimize US losses but as
the secretary said this is major combat
operations. So let me talk about the
preparation and the planning. On
February 28th, the full strength of
America's armed forces came together in
a unified purpose against a capable and
determined adversary. The United States
Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force,
Space Force, Coast Guard, and our
reserve components integrated our cross
our combatant commands and began
coordinated operations with the Israeli
armed forces of an unprecedented scale.
As the secretary laid out, our military
objectives are clear. Our mission is to
protect and defend ourselves and
together with our regional partners,
prevent Iran from the ability to project
power outside of its borders and be
ready for follow-on actions as
appropriate. Across every domain, land,
air, sea, cyber, the US joint force
delivered synchronized and layered
effects designed to disrupt, degrade,
deny, and destroy Iran's ability to
conduct and sustain combat operations.
On the US side, this marked the
culmination of months and in some cases
years of deliberate planning and
refinement against this particular
target set. From precision strikes
against key military infrastructure to
persistent intelligence and targeting
integration to the close coordination of
the components across vast distances.
This operation again demonstrated
America's reach, readiness and
professionalism
united force. It was historic not only
in the operational scope but in the
level of joint integration displayed
across every element of the joint force.
And as I said earlier, this work is just
beginning and will continue. So now to
talk a little bit about setting the
force and setting the theater on the
order of the Secretary of War over the
last 30 days to reinforce deterrence and
provide the president with credible
options should action be required. The
joint force began to systematically
reposition assets and personnel across
the region. These movements ensured that
US forces remained postured, protected,
and ready to respond decisively for any
emerging threat. This deployment
included thousands of service members
from all branches, hundreds of advanced
fourth and fifth generation fighters,
dozens of refueling tankers, the Lincoln
and Ford carrier strike group and their
embarked air wings, sustained flow of
munitions, fuel supplies, all supported
with command and control, intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance network.
And the flow of forces continues today.
In fact, Admiral Cooper will receive
additional forces even today. This rapid
buildup of forces demonstrated the joint
forces ability to adapt and project
power at the time and place of our
nation's choosing. I want to highlight a
couple specific cases for you. The
Gerald R. Ford carrier strike group,
which many of you know was down in the
Western Hemisphere, redeployed across
the Atlantic to set the theater. the
ship, her crew, their families, and the
entire strike group took a deep breath
and as they always do, began planning to
conduct combat operations. The
integrated reserve and national guard
forces have continued to demonstrate the
value of America's reserve forces,
including the Wisconsin Wisconsin Army
National Guard operating in Kuwait and
Iraq and Air National Guard units from a
variety of states to include Vermont,
Virginia. In the case of the Vermont Air
National Guard and the 158th Fighter
Wing, they were mobilized for Operation
Absolute Resolve and then were tasked to
take their F-35As
across the Atlantic instead of going
home to be prepared to support this
operation. The same is with our Air
National Guard and Air Force Reserve
Command tanker and mobility forces who
stepped right out of their civilian jobs
to deploy and to protect the region.
Lastly, I want to highlight the unsung
heroes of warfare, our American
logisticians and sustainment force,
those who quietly work every day behind
the scenes to project and sustain
America's combat power. Our leaders from
World War II were right when they said
professionals do logistics. As regional
tensions rose, the joint force elevated
our force protection measures on the
order of the secretary and repositioned
discreetly civilians and non-essential
personnel designed to ensure the safety
and security of our joint force. By the
time operations began, only essential
forces remained on our bases and in the
already capable to respond.
So now let me move to H hour. At 15:38
3:38 p.m. on Friday, February 27th, the
United States Central Command through
the Secretary of War received the final
go order from President Trump. The
president directed and I quote,
"Operation Epic Fury is approved. No
aborts. Good luck." Close close quote.
In the region, every element of the
joint force made their final
preparations. Air defense batteries
readied themselves, checking their
systems to respond to Iranian attacks.
Pilots and crews were
final time. Air crews began loading
their final weapons and two carrier
strike groups began to move towards
their launching points across the globe.
Our operation centers came alive in
Tampa, Florida, here at the Pentagon and
of course forward in the central command
AO. As always, operational security was
paramount as we sought to maintain and
sustain the element of surprise. This
operation was highly classified so that
at each hour uh the enemy would see one
thing, speed, surprise, and violence of
action. The first movers were US
CyberCom and US Spacecom, layering
non-kinetic effects, disrupting and
degrading and blinding Iran's ability to
see, communicate, and respond. At H
hour, the beginning of major combat
operations, 015
local, Eastern Daylight Time, 9:45 local
a.m. Thrron time. As dawn crept up
across the central command AO, the skies
surged to life. More than a 100 aircraft
launched from land, sea, fighters,
tankers, airborne early warning,
electronic attack, bombers from the
states, and unmanned platforms forming a
single synchronized wave. This was a
daylight strike based on a trigger event
conducted by the Israeli Defense Forces
enabled by the US intelligence
community. The first shooters at sea
were tomahawks unleashed by the United
States Navy, closed in on Iranian naval
forces, and began to conduct strikes
across the southern flank in Iran. On
the ground, forces fired precision
standoff weapons, measured, deliberate,
precise, and lethal. This was a massive,
overwhelming attack across all domains
of warfare, striking more than a
thousand targets in the first 24 hours.
We are now roughly 57 hours into the
operation. In the initial phase,
SENCOM's focus was systematic targeting
of Iranians command and control
infrastructure, naval forces, ballistic
missile sites, and intelligence
infrastructure designed to daz and
confuse them. Coordinated space and
cyber operations effectively disrupted
communications and sensor networks
across the area of responsibility,
leaving the adversary without the
ability to see, coordinate, or respond
effectively. The combined impact of
these strikes, swift, precise, and
overwhelming, has resulted in the
establishment of local air superiority.
This air superiority will not only
enhance the protection of our forces,
but also allow them to continue the work
over Iran. Over the course of the last
two days, the joint force has launched
hundreds of missions from land and sea
and delivered tens of thousands of
pieces of ordinance. The effort
continues to scale. This included
American B2 bombers which again similar
to Midnight Hammer flew a 37-hour
roundtrip sordy from the continental
United States dropping precision
penetrating munitions on Iranian
underground facilities across the
southern flank and slightly deeper.
Additionally, Israel has separately
executed hundreds of sorties against
hundreds of targets.
Beyond Air Force and Navy aircraft
strike packages, coordinated salvos of
precision standoff weapons from across
the region have neutralized hundreds of
pre-planned targets. As I mentioned
earlier, uh, in support of these kinetic
operations, US Cybercom and Spacecom
have continuously layered effects to
disrupt, disorient, and confuse the
enemy. I will note that this operation
had several combat firsts, which I'll
allow at some point in the future.
Admiral
the AO.
While we've pro prosecuted a relentless
offensive campaign, our defense has been
equally important. Across the theater,
operations have remained steady and
disciplined. Once again, our integrated
air and missile defense network is
performing exactly exactly as it's
intended. US Patriot and THAAD batteries
along with ballistic missile defense
capable Navy destroyers continue to
coordinate and execute intercepts with
precision and consistency.
I wish that every American could hear
the voice communications like I have as
these joint operation centers remain
calm, focused, and cool while executing
under fire uh over and over again.
Collectively, these systems have
intercepted hundreds of ballistic
missiles targeting US forces, our
partners, and regional stability.
The threat from one-way attack UAVs has
remained persistent. Our systems have
proven effective in countering these
platforms, engaging targets rapidly.
Each intercept represents hundreds of
hours of training, readiness, and
technology, all coming together to work
as designed. We will remain vigilant in
the counter UAV fight. And the defense
of the region is not ours alone. As the
threat grew, our partners surged in
beside us. Air defense batteries in
Qatar, the UAE, Kuwait, Jordan, and
Saudi Arabia join the fight. Proof
positive that years of training, trust,
and hardearned integration pay off. I am
aware of the loss of three US Air Force
F-15E overnight in the region. I am
grateful for the safety of the crews and
we know that this was not from hostile
enemy fire. As this matters under
investigation, I'll not comment further
on this. Let me close. Operations will
remain active across the theater and
across the globe. The US forces are
postured not only to maintain pressure
but to respond and adapt as required.
Operation Epic Fury stands as a reminder
of what the United States military
uniquely delivers. The ability to
project power on a global scale with
speed, surprise, precision, and
overwhelming force when and where our
nation requires it. What we've
demonstrated over the past several days
reflects years of investment in
readiness, joint integration, and
professionalism of the joint force.
As major combat operations continue
across Sentcom, we remain engaged
globally. America's joint force retains
the credibility, capacity, and
flexibility to respond to any
contingency anywhere in the world at any
time. To those who would test our
resolve or threaten the United States,
our allies or our interests, understand
clearly, we can reach you. We can
sustain the fight and we can scale the
fight and we will prevail. To the
American people, your joint force
remains steady, frosty, calm, and
focused. Your service members are
trained, disciplined, and determined. We
understand the risks of this mission and
the weight of the responsibility that we
carry. We also recognize that our
families also shoulder the burden at
home. You are a part of this, too. I am
proud today, as I am every day, to stand
as a member of America's joint force.
There is no mission too complex, no
distance too great, and no adversary too
determined for the men and women who
wear our nation's uniform. We mourn our
fallen, we honor their families, and we
continue our mission with focus, unity,
and strength. And now I'm happy to take
any questions. [clears throat]
>> Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right here. Go
ahead.
>> Thank you for your time. What percentage
of Iranian long strike capabilities are
still in the fight and what is our exit
strategy here and when will it be
deployed?
>> Well, they they have long range strike
capabilities um which we are
hyperfocused on. The brief we got just
this morning, Admiral Cooper knows
exactly and precisely what kind of
threat uh matrix he's looking at, the
way they might change their techniques
and how we adapt to that. Uh so we're
making sure the theater commander has
absolutely everything he needs. I mean
one of the things the chairman mentioned
is for months and months even before we
built up we ensured that we had maximum
defensive capabilities in theater to
allow the president the decision space
in the future. So even before this
buildup in the last 30 days we
discreetly brought defensive assets in
to make sure understanding that there
are Iranian capabilities. As far as time
frame I would never hang a time frame
from our perspective. The
commander-in-chief sets the op tempo and
terms of this fight. As I said it's on
his terms. Uh, and we'll make sure that
Admiral Cooper and his team have
everything they need, not just to
defend. I mean, the best defense is good
offense. And so, we're aggressively
pushing into that airspace over that
southern flank to ensure that we control
it and we destroy anything that moves
that would attempt to shoot us. Think of
it as shooting the archer instead of the
arrows. Uh, that's where we want to be.
And we have the kind of exquisite
intelligence to get over the top, find
that, and destroy it. It won't happen
overnight. This is a big battle space uh
with a lot of capabilities. That's part
of the reason why it's such a threat to
us. That's why I talk about conventional
umbrella to blackmail nuclear ambitions.
Uh they were building up this
conventional arsenal in order to ensure
that no one would ever block them from
their ability to get nuclear weapons. So
we're we're very cleareyed about the
nature of this Iranian threat and we're
going to get after it. I don't know if
you have anything to add to that, Mr.
Chairman.
>> Thank you for the question. The only
thing I'll add is unlike an operation a
single operation like Midnight Hammer or
Absolute Resolve, uh we'll it'll take
some time for us to conduct battle
damage assessment and the targeting
cycle that SenCom will run will take
those things into effect. Admiral Cooper
will adjust his plan and fires
accordingly to ensure that we're
attitting that. He's focused on long
range strike capability coming out of
the enemy. Um and uh and that's a key
and essential part of it
>> of the capabilities that still exist
from the enemy front.
>> Yeah, that's why I mean when I say we're
still doing BDA um normally, you know,
normally we'd be able to uh see a
singular thing and we'd assess pretty
quickly. He's doing offense and
assessment simultaneously, so it'll take
longer for us to assess than it would in
a single operation.
>> Secretary Hicks, thank you. Reagan Ree
with the Daily Caller. Um two questions
for you. The president said yesterday in
his video message that we will leave
[clears throat] Iran when we complete
all of our objectives. What are our
objectives and can you share more
information on how the soldiers who were
killed were killed?
>> Well, I laid out the objectives as did
the chairman. They're they're completely
nested. I mean, Iran has an ability to
project power against us and our allies
in a ways that we can't um we can't
tolerate. So whether that's ballistic
missiles and drones, so offensive
capabilities, uh effectively their their
navy, which would attempt to set other
terms and impose different costs, uh
drone capabilities, which we which we
laid out there and ultimately though
this tying it back to midnight hammer,
the president has been willing to make a
deal. You can't have a nuclear bomb.
Radical Islamists can't have a nuclear
bomb that they wield uh against the
world. He gave them every single
opportunity. then we precisely took it
away and even even then after that they
didn't have that they didn't come to the
table with a willingness to give it
away. So ultimately that those nuclear
ambitions which never ceased uh are
something that had to be addressed as
well. So that's a discreet sense of
what's being addressed here to ensure
that they can't use that conventional
umbrella to continue a pursuit of
nuclear ambitions. Uh and then as as it
pertains to the US casualties, that
particular incident uh was, you know,
you have air defenses and the lots
coming in and you hit most of it and we
absolutely do. We have incredible air
defenders. Uh every once in a while you
might have one, unfortunately, we call
it a squirter that that makes its way
through. Uh and in that particular case,
uh it happened to hit uh a a tactical
operation center uh that was that was
fortified, but um these are powerful
weapons. So we are we certainly we'll do
as I said moments like that as we
remember them and we take care of them
and take care of their families only
stiffen our resolve to ensure that we uh
we do this properly.
>> Thank you.
>> Y
>> thank you uh Secretary Hexath. I had two
questions for you. First um are there
currently any American boots on the
ground in Iran?
>> Um no but we're not going to go into the
exercise of what we will or will not do.
I think it's one of those fallacies for
a long time that this department or
presidents or others should tell the
American people this and our and our
enemies, by the way, here's exactly what
we'll do. Here's exactly how long we'll
go. Here's exactly how far we'll go.
Here's what we're willing to do and not
do. It's foolishness. And so, President
Trump ensures that our enemies
understand we'll go as far as we need to
go to advanced American interests. But
we're not dumb about it. You don't have
to roll 200,000 people in there and stay
for 20 years. We've proven that you can
achieve objectives that advance American
interests without being foolish about
it. Now, will we be bold about it? Are
we willing to be decisive about it? Do
we put months and months of planning
into what kind of effects we want to
achieve? Absolutely. But going forward,
why in the world would we tell you, you,
the enemy, anybody what we will or will
not do in pursuit of an objective. We
fight to win. We fight to achieve the
objectives the president of the United
States has laid out. and we will do so
unapologetically. Thank you.
>> Is there any significance to Israel
carrying out the strike to kill the
Ayatollah? And um I wanted to know what
was your immediate reaction to finding
out about his killing.
>> I uh I think Israel did a great job in
the conduct of that operation.
>> President Trump put a four-week timeline
on it. Are you saying that's wrong?
>> Um yeah, thank you. Um you you mentioned
during the briefing, uh General Kaine,
that there would be additional troops
sent to the region. Could you say how
many troops uh currently are involved in
this operation and how many additional
troops are planned to go in in in this
next phase?
>> Uh I don't want to talk specifics
because that would tip the enemy off. Um
we we have more tactical aviation
flowing into theater just based on the
time it took to get it out there. Um I
think we're just about where we want to
be in terms of total combat capacity and
total combat power for Admiral Cooper.
One of the things though that a
commander he'll consistently assess the
trajectory of the campaign is he on or
off trajectory and then make an ask of
the joint force which will then uh
develop options for consideration by the
secretary and the president to either
increase or in some cases decrease the
amount of combat capability that we have
over there.
>> I heard the question about uh about four
weeks. It's the typical typical NBC sort
of gotcha type question. President Trump
has all the latitude in the world to
talk about how long it may or may not
take. Four weeks, two weeks, six weeks.
It could move up. It could move back. Uh
we're going to execute at his command
the objectives we've set out to achieve.
And what he has shown ability to do that
other presidents can't quite seem to
have the aperture to do. Well, I mean,
Joe Biden didn't even know what he was
doing, is to look for opportunities and
offramps and escalations for the United
States. That creates new opportunities
to execute what we need on our own
timeline. So you can play games about
four weeks, five weeks. He has all the
latitude and I'm glad he does because
there's no better communicator than our
president expressing those things
>> to the Daily Mail.
>> I've been in meetings with the president
for the last two and a half days. We
know exactly where his head headspace is
and he will communicate as he should
exactly uh what he would like and we
will follow those orders and I think he
everything he said on that is right down
the middle. We've been track briefing
live [clears throat] from the Pentagon
down in Washington DC. The defense
secretary Pete Exath speaking alongside
the chairman of the joint chief of staff
general Dan Kaine. The objectives
destroy the missile threat, destroy the
navy and no nukes. The market action,
the price action looks like this.
Equities holding on to losses. We're
down by 1% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ, down by 1.3. Similar move on the
Russell. A lot of attention on the
energy market. Check it out. Crude,
Brent, and WTI holding on to gains.
Brent up by close to 9% and very close
to 80. Gapping Kaya at the open in Asian
trading yesterday evening through 82
7940 as the things stand WTI 7243
that's the picture in commodities. Check
out the bond market yields up across the
curve throughout this morning. Twos out
to 30s up by eight basis points on twos
47 and on 10's back through 4%. The move
keeps getting higher and it's
significant we're back above 4% as this
market tries to understand just how
prolonged this conflict might be. I
think it was important that Secretary
Hegsef said that this is not a regime
change war when it did seem like the
objective objective was that regime
change. He went on to say to your point
John it was about disabling their
nuclear capabilities and if that is the
case did they do enough? The general
there saying it would take time to do a
battlefield assessment but maybe it is
enough. Maybe they've taken out enough
of the missiles if that is the
objective. I think there are still
question marks though as to how long
this can go on for.
>> In the defense secretary's own words,
Iran is not a regime change war, but the
regime did change and it did change over
the weekend. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Tyler, clearly a
plea to the American people as well
there. This is not Iraq. It's not
Afghanistan.
>> No. Uh, exactly, John. As you were
mentioning, the defense secretary Pete
Haggath saying that this will not be an
endless war, but that it is going to
take time for the US to achieve its
objectives. We also heard from the chair
of the droid chiefs of staff saying that
the US has indeed established air
superiority over Iran and that the US
intends to sustain this mission. and he
said 100 aircraft were deployed in that
first wave of strikes against the
country and that so far hundreds of
missions have been launched across air
and sea as the effort quote continues to
scale. He said that additional forces
are headed to the region today and that
the US does expect more casualties. Now,
in terms of the defense secretary, Pete
Hagsath, we heard him outline what he
said was this disappointment in the
talks around Iran's nuclear capabilities
as well as those domestic ballistic
missile program. And as you're
mentioning, saying that this wasn't
about so-called regime change, but that
the US quote hopes that the Iranian
people take advantage of this moment.
Says Iran still maintains significant
long range missile capabilities and did
not outline a timeline for an exit
strategy. He also didn't appear to rule
out the possibility that we could see
American boots on the ground as he says
the administration is leaving all
options on the table. John, this press
conference is incredibly important. It's
the first press briefing that we've
gotten from the Pentagon actually in
months and the first time that we've
seen officials publicly address the
American people since the strike started
this weekend.
>> Tana Kendall down in Washington DC
outside of the White House. Just to pick
up on some of those comments, important
two. The first one asked about boots on
the ground. They would not go into the
exercise of saying what they will or
will not do on duration, on timing.
Asked about the comments the president
had made to the Daily Mail over the
weekend about this taking perhaps four
weeks. The defense secretary would not
engage in that conversation either. And
that latter question is a key question,
I think, for financial markets. If you
go over the conversations we've had all
morning right here on Bloomberg, what do
we keep going back to? If it's short,
contain, this market moves on. If it
endures, if it's prolonged, then we've
got a different set of questions to
answer for. And there have been some
bold calls being made that you can fade
the move. I find that hard to do at this
moment because of those question marks
because of the uncertainty. We don't
know the timeline. And by the way, this
is not happening in isolation. This is
happening after a president that also
took decisive action action in
Venezuela. And the secretary heets
saying to those who attest our resolve,
understand clearly we can reach you. We
can sustain the fight and we can scale
the fight and we will prevail. This is a
White House that feels emboldened to
take those kinds of actions. This is not
just Iran, it's Venezuela and maybe
elsewhere too.
>> Let's continue the conversation with the
Bloomberg team. Bloomberg's Jamaa Baseti
leading our coverage out of Dubai and
joins us now. Jamanna, welcome to the
program. Big moves in crude, big moves
in natural gas. Can you give us the
update on the kind of damage that's been
done to energy infrastructure across the
Middle East and what's happening to
supply and to output?
Yeah, and before I do that, John, I also
just want to go back because it all ties
into the same topic of what Hegset was
saying about this not being a forever
war and that they will ultimately
achieve their objectives. The question
is over what time frame and at what
cost? And the reason I bring up this
element of cost is because of precisely
the reaction that we're seeing in global
markets today. Uh there was another uh
volley I would say or another level of
intensity that has been injected into
the past three days uh with Iran
actually going after energy
infrastructure of Gulf states. These are
key Gulf states. In the morning we were
talking about an attack that was uh
intercepted above the key refining
facility in Saudi Arabia and Aramco. It
caused a fire limited damage and
actually didn't really impact production
at all. Uh but later on in the day and
what you are seeing now in the gas
markets was this force majour that was
declared out of Qatar energy to their
customers on back of again a strike that
took place there. And so these are
having you know these these attempted
strikes even though the missiles are
being intercepted are actually having
realworld impact right now on energy
markets on cost on consumers of this
energy. People were quick to think
about, you know, the biggest consumer of
Qatar LG, many of them are European
consumers. That's going to have an
impact on the European economy. What is
the appetite for the public, the
American public to sustain higher energy
costs if they persist and if this indeed
ends up being a protracted war? And so
to come back to what Hexus was saying
about this not being uh a an an endless
war, one of the objectives that has
become very apparent over the last
couple of days is regime change. But the
US have committed to not putting troops
on the ground, in which case you would
need the support of the Iranian people
to uh once for once more start
demonstrating in huge numbers. And we
don't see any signs of that happening
yet. So again, it is a very tricky
situation. I would say the reframing
should be around how long this is going
to last for and at what cost.
>> Jamanna, it's great to see you. Stay
safe. Jamanna Betetti there of Bloomberg
out of Dubai. So the opening bell's just
around the corner about 43 minutes away
and you know how this typically plays
out in financial markets. You see moves
like this over the weekend. Oil spikes,
the market fades it. There's a
conversation throughout this morning
about whether it's different this time.
We're holding on to losses in the equity
market, down 1% on the S&P, down 1.4 on
the Nasdaq. The Nasdaq already fragile
over the last four weeks or so. This
move in crude up by 8% on WTI, on Brent
crude up by close to nine. Will these
gains hold or do you fade this move as
well? And what does it mean for the
so-called central bank put this move in
the bond market? Yields up at the front
end of the curve on twos and on tens. On
twos up by seven basis points, on tens
up by eight. and a conversation about
what this means for several central
banks and not just the Federal Reserve.
>> Europe is going to be fascinating here
because they already had to grapple with
the complete restructuring of the energy
complex there after Russia invaded
Ukraine. Do we have to grapple with that
again? Is this a BOE for example that
can no longer continue to cut? Those
questions are being asked when it comes
to the investor reaction. I thought the
Barclay's global chair of research was
really good on this yesterday saying
that investors have gotten used to a
pattern of deescalation and what worries
him is that they might have learned from
this pattern and be underpricing a risk
where containment fails. Are we
currently underpricing that risk?
>> Steve Rashto of Missou joined us now for
more. Steve, just to echo that, we've
all been conditioned to ignore some very
real risk in the Middle East. Do you
believe this is different this time?
Uh yeah, again, as you've indicated over
and over again in the show, it depends
on the length of time, but I think if
the situation becomes one of those where
it slowly deescalates and just winds up
becoming less and less of the news topic
of the day, the market will just begin
to take it on board. And that's where it
comes down to. The the less casualties
that there that are accomplished, the
more it becomes a routine situation, the
less it becomes newsworthy, the less it
becomes a dominant issue in the
marketplace. And that's what's been
going on as a result of these events
over and over again. And I think that is
what will happen here as well.
>> Steve, how are you looking at the price
of oil of the move in the energy complex
to understand the ricochets, the impact
when it comes to inflation?
>> Well, I think the oil situation has been
certainly something that has been
helping to buy us down the inflation.
We've been worried about inflation more
than the market has. This certainly adds
to the the worries about inflation. But
again, look at where the 10-year yield
is. Um, you know, we're just back above
4%. We were at 430 uh a few weeks ago, a
week and a half ago, and and nobody
seemed to care too much about the the
macroeconomic impact of it. And the
inflation story has been running at 3%.
And so, we're probably going to continue
to at least run at 3% on inflation going
forward. But how quickly does the
10-year note back up to where it should
be given a nominal GDP number of about
6%? you know, we should be looking at
decidedly higher yields than we
currently are today anyway. Uh, and the
economy has not yet felt any impact from
it because we're not at those levels of
yields and the Federal Reserve is still
supposedly focused on cutting rates.
They still have one more dot in their
calendar uh in the dot plot to go
forward. So, I don't think this is going
to really disrupt markets. I think we
reestablish a 4 to 420 trading range on
the 10-year note.
>> Hey, Steve, just quickly, your point on
inflation, you've been pretty consistent
about that. Why do you think we are a
little bit more vulnerable than people
realize to an inflationary shock here?
>> Well, I think the the point is the
market has been ignoring the inflation
premium over and over again for an
extended period of time. And if you
notice since the January FOMC minutes,
the rhetoric coming out of the Federal
Reserve have all been uniformly shifting
the focus away from just labor market
only back towards labor market and
inflation. And that's not priced in at
the front end of the curve. And if we
lose the front end of the curve, we're
going to have a lateral upward shift in
the curve.
>> Steve, it's good to see you as always,
sir. Thank you. Steve Rajut there of
Missouo breaking down the moves we're
seeing in energy and what they might
mean for the economy, what they might
mean for foreign exchange and markets
more broadly. Mark McCormick of Beimo
Capital Markets joins us now for more.
Mark, welcome to the program. Your
reaction to what we've seen play out
over the weekend, how you expect to see
this ripple through financial markets in
the week to come.
>> Yeah, I think for for FX markets, this
is a classic risk off and it favors a
dollar. I think one of the things here
is we've been stuck with a very stale
narrative that the rest of the world is
hedging dollar assets that's pushing
dollar lower and that US exceptionalism
is over and I think what we're seeing is
that underneath that the strength of the
dollar is kind of linked to what should
be a strong growth factor a strong
inflation factor as you just highlighted
and what we're seeing that's like very
very important is that positioning the
way that we track it is actually neutral
dollar now so essentially we have
two-way risks we have a catalyst we have
a change we have essentially what could
be a a catalyst here for the dollar to
start to rally particularly against
European currencies like euro stocky and
sterling currencies that are all lagging
on these indicators and ones that have
been supported extremely well by
positioning and narratives.
>> So Mike let's talk about rate
differential specifically for the
Federal Reserve. What does crude closer
to 80 than 60 mean to them?
>> Well I think what matters it's also the
inflation surprise. So if you look at US
inflation surprises, they've bottomed
out recently. And so if inflation starts
to top to the upside, which is kind of
what we're seeing on some of our leading
indicators when we look at an inflation
factor, I think part of it here is that
yields will start to we'll start to see
a flattening of the yield curve. And if
you look at the correlation that's been
predominant since kind of liberation day
is that steepness in the yield curve has
equated to a weaker dollar. So what
we're starting to see is our global
macro factors. We're starting to see the
dollar correlate a little bit more
closely with global growth and we're
also starting to see those hedges roll
off. So I think when we bring it back to
yields, what we're going to start to see
is better data, upward revisions to US
growth outlook along with stronger data
momentum should equally a should equal a
more hawkish Fed or at least a Fed that
looks more neutral or hawkish relative
to market pricing which is still
expecting further easing. I think this
is the mirror image of what we should
expect out of Europe. Terms of trade
shock, natural gas inventories are
extremely low levels. Um, and these
terms of trade shocks are terrible for
real income and real uh purpose of how
the economy actually grows. And that's
what we saw in Asia. That's what we saw
in Europe in 2022. And so higher oil
prices kind of makes its way through the
central bank trades through the
steepness of the curve and the relative
uh shape of the front end.
>> Mark, I also can't tell you how many
calls I had heard this year that it
would be a year for emerging markets
with an ongoing dollar weakness. Does
this also change those bets?
I don't think it's entirely terrible for
carry. I think what you need is growth
adjusted carry. So you need quality
growth currencies. So I think the way
you would want to play this is you want
to do look at the relative appeal of
emerging market carry. Um, this might
not be great for Brazil immediately, but
I feel like if you look, if you cross
G10 pairs like sterling or euro or even
Swiss, which is starting to get on the
SMB's radar screen, selling those low
yielding G10 currencies versus Brazil, I
still think is a good trade because on
the other side of this, this is good for
commodity exposure. So, energy prices
going up, it's a terms of trade shock.
Someone wins, someone loses. Latin
America tends to win. This is not great
for Turkey, obviously given its uh its
proximity to the geographic region. But
I think the other currency that should
do fairly well, and the way that I'd
cross this in North America, is you sell
the Canadian dollar versus the Mexican
peso. Those are two currencies that kind
of look really disjointed. They have
obviously trade concerns around USMCA
and how they're linked to the story of
trade and uncertainty within the US and
USMCA. So there's ways of playing it,
but you want an EM carry with a strong
growth profile that benefits alongside
the high carry to all ratios.
>> Hey Marcus, good to see you. Thanks for
jumping on. Mark McCormack there of Bimo
Capital Markets. Pleased you brought up
EM EM equities down by 2% in today's
session alone. We need to talk about
American households as well. This from
Neil Dutter of Renmack. There is not
much of a buffer for US households. The
US might be energy independent, but
rising prices will still pinch
consumption. I think it's also important
that this is an American economy that's
been increasingly tied to the stock
market. Be it household ownership of
stocks, be it the most wealthy being the
ones who are driving this consumer
economy. If this also has the impact of
an equity market selloff, if bond yields
move higher, which the equity market is
dependent on, if commodity prices go up,
which in turn pushes up the bond market,
do you get that uneasy feedback loop
that has an impact on the American
economy even though that this is a
conflict happening far away from the US?
We have called this several times the
longest first quarter ever. There is
still one more month to go. Coming up
tomorrow, we'll catch up with Chris
Veron of Strategus, Tossen Sllock of
Apollo, Mark Hayley of UBS Global Wealth
Management, Julie Bill of Kane Anderson
Rdnik. Plus, before we get there,
[music] this later 2:00 p.m. Eastern
time, Brammo catching up with the JP
Morgan Chase chairman and CEO Jamie
Diamond. Look out for that later on this
afternoon from New York City this
[music] morning. Good morning. Looking
forward to tracking a very real
developing story in the Middle East with
you throughout the week. From New York
City, this was Bloomberg Surveillance.